A GE2020 Manifesto by Progress Singapore Party
You Deserve Better
For Country, For people
3rd August 2019
25 August 2019
Our Short Journey
We celebrated 54 years of nationhood at the 
Concorde Hotel
Progress Singapore Party was officially launched at 
the Swissotel Merchant Court
We held our very first walkabout islandwide, visiting 
all 29 constituencies, and many more after that
We celebrated the Lunar New Year with the 
opening of our Party Headquarters at Bukit Timah
PSP will go to the polls for the first time
29 September 2019
17 January 2020
10 July 2020
2 3
Contents
2  Our Short Journey
3  Contents
4   Message from Secretary-General
6   Economic Development
8   Social Development
10   Political Development
My dear Singaporeans,
Today, we will be presenting our manifesto. This manifesto is the culmination of months of 
research and consultations with the public.
We looked at the main issues concerning Singaporeans and at the topmost, was cost of 
living.
Singapore is a very expensive city and has held the title of the top five most expensive cities 
in the world in the last five years.  
Wages have stagnated and the economy is lacklustre. On top of all that, the emergence 
of COVID-19 as a health and economic threat presents Singapore with difficult challenges 
ahead in the next decade or so. 
Singapore’s economy is forecasted to contract between 4% - 7% in 2020 and that puts 
massive downward pressure on demand for many goods and services. Some industries like 
travel, aviation, tourism, hotels and F&B have been hard hit, with job losses expected to hit 
100k to 200k.  
People are feeling the strain. Furthermore, in an Ipsos survey released in Feb this year, 
nearly 4 in 5 respondents agree that Singapore’s economy is rigged to advantage the rich 
and powerful. 
However, the government’s response so far seems to be a patchwork of policy tweaks 
without addressing the fundamental factors affecting Singaporeans. 
Large segments of the population are at risk of falling through the cracks and we need to 
support them with compassion to ensure that they get back on their feet. 
Rehashing past policies is definitely not the way to go. We need to have a paradigm shift 
and look for workable alternative solutions going forward. 
Progress Singapore Party believe that its manifesto offers a better alternative to the current 
problems that we are facing as a nation. 
The manifesto is divided into three broad segments of Economic development, Social 
development and Political development. Each topic in turn looks at how we can build an 
alternative vision for Singapore. 
Thank you for taking the time to read and consider our proposals.
For country, For people.
4 5
Dr Tan Che n g boc k
You De serve  bet ter
6 7
ec onomic  de v e lopment
In our economic policies, we will be guided by the following principles:
• The economy must serve Singaporeans, not the other way around.
• The purpose of economic growth is to improve the quality of life for the people. Economic 
growth that comes at the expense of quality of life defeats its purpose and is not sustainable.
• Our objective is to raise real wages gradually to improve the livelihood of individuals and 
families. We will target to increase the wage share of GDP to OECD standards over the 
longer term.
• Anyone who puts in an honest day’s work should earn enough to live in dignity. 
• Free market forces generally prevail in economic activities, with the government setting 
standards and ensuring fair competition. However, to ensure sustainability and survival in 
the long run and on the international stage, we will nurture and encourage local workforce 
and businesses and prioritise them in job and public sector procurement opportunities so 
as to build capability and resilience in Singapore. 
• Provide the right environment for local SMEs to grow and develop into a strong growth 
engine of our economy locally, regionally and internationally. 
• Maintain balance between economic development and environmental protection for the 
sake of future generations.
• Gear the economy up to exploit emerging opportunities offered by the 4th Industrial 
Revolution 
• Reduce business costs to revitalise our industry and bring down cost of living
Jobs for Singaporeans:
• Job priority for Singaporeans
• Introduce quota for Employment Pass
• Lower quota for S Pass and Work 
Permit
• Review free trade agreements like 
CECA
Reduce dependence on foreign 
labour:
• Problems of congestion, social strains 
and depressed wages
• Curb easy supply to push employers 
to invest in equipment or processes for 
higher productivity
• Move toward higher value-add and 
higher-wage model
Assistance to local SMEs:
• Priority in public sector procurements
• Invest in local SMEs and encourage 
cooperation amongst them
• Direct support to SMEs to restructure 
their business and in their effort to go 
overseas
• Reduce business costs
Living Wage:
• Increase amount of Workfare and the 
cash portion to 80% (like wages)
• After the economy stabilises, to 
introduce living wage to all sectors
Our current priority is:
Resurgence Strategy Post-Covid: Bolder economic stimuli, stronger support for 
SMEs that employ 70% of our workforce.
YOU DESERVE BETTER
Financing of these proposals can be done through cuts in public spending and 
use of investment returns from our sovereign wealth fund.
Our current priorities are: 
• A stronger social safety net to help Singaporeans through the Covid-19 crisis 
• Address HDB lease decay
• Increase quantum of CPF withdrawal at 55
8 9
Social  d e v e lopme nt
In our social policies, we will be guided by the following principles:
• We are one united people regardless of race, language or religion 
• Reducing inequality and Improving social mobility
• Using education as a social leveller
• Building a strong social safety net for the needy, including the handicapped, the 
sick, the retired and the dislocated   
• Seeking to achieve work-family balance to improve our TFR 
• More affordable homes 
YOU DESERVE BETTER
Social safety net:
• Improved financial assistance for 
those unemployed due to Covid
• Increase ComCare payout
Housing:
• En-bloc redevelopment for all old 
flats
• Peg new flat prices to income levels
• Bring down housing costs for young 
Singaporeans to free them for 
entrepreneurial pursuit
CPF:
• Withdrawal of up to $50,000 at 
age 55 
• Sale of En-bloc rights
• Medishield Life premium to be 
paid by Government
Taxes and Fees:
• Freeze tax and fee increases for 
the next five years
• Exempt basic necessities from GST
Our current priorities are: 
• Stronger alternative voices in Parliament
• Independence of key institutions and appointments
• Strong public service ethos
• Freedom of speech and expression
1 0 1 1
Polit ical  d e v e lopment
In our political policies, we will be guided by:
• A system of checks and balances is needed to prevent abuse of power
• Accountability, transparency and independence are needed to build trust
• Upholding the public service ethos of personal sacrifice and frugality
• Building national identity and pride integral to nation building
• Freedom of speech and expression to weave a richer national fabric
YOU DESERVE BETTER
Stronger alternative voices in 
Parliament:
• Reduce the over-dominance 
of a single Party with over 90% 
representation in Parliament
• Stronger alternative voices in 
Parliament offering different 
viewpoints and suggestions 
Public Service :
• Personal sacrifice: Ministerial salaries 
should be cut and pegged to median 
income. 
• Public spending should be frugal 
and huge projects subject to greater 
scrutiny
• Public service including public 
transport and utilities should not be 
profit making.
Independence of key institutions 
and key appointments:
• Expand Presidential oversight over 
more key public appointments 
• No conflict of interest in key public 
appointments
Freedom of speech and 
expression:
• Allow for speaking up without fear 
or favour
• Encourage diversity of views
• Relax the regulation of media & 
the arts
• Review POFMA 
1 2 1 3
Let’s get connected. 
@progresssingaporepartyofficial
@progresssgparty
Text ‘JOIN’ to 85022519  
contact@psp.org.sg
Progress Singapore Party
t.me/ProgressSingaporePartyPSP_Singapore
@progresssingaporeparty
