A Better Tomorrow 1
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Singapore People’s Party
A BETTER 
TOMORROW
ACCOUNTABILITY. COMMITMENT. EMPATHY.
Manifesto for GE 2020
A Better Tomorrow 2
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Content page
Foreword
Empowering our youth
Lowering the cost of living
Combating the climate emergency
Strengthening retirement adequacy through CPF
Greater democracy
Protecting our sandwiched generation
Improving mental health
Affordable housing
Holistic education
Strengthening our workforce
1
2
10
4
12
6
14
18
8
16
20
A Better Tomorrow 1
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Fellow Singaporeans,
Every 5 years, we have the opportunity to exercise our democratic right to vote. 
Soon, you will have the chance to do the same. In this manifesto, we hope to help 
you understand some of the SPP’s policy positions and guiding principles. Although 
it is unlikely that we will be in a position to implement policy as we will not form the 
government, these are matters that we will advocate for in Parliament, should we be 
given the honour of serving you.
Our policies and positions are designed to tackle not just the short-term issues posed 
and/or exacerbated by COVID-19, but also take a long-term approach as some things 
do warrant a fundamental rethink instead of mere cosmetic change.
Our Manifesto is prefaced and built upon our three guiding principles of Accountability 
Commitment and Empathy.  Policies may shift, opinions may change, and different 
solutions may be required for different times. What will always be consistent are the 
values that underpin our policies and actions. 
Accountability – We believe that it is our role to ensure that the powers that be 
remain accountable to the people. Accountability can and should be improved 
through both action and institutional reform. 
Commitment – We are always committed to adding value to the lives of 
Singaporeans. Both on the ground and in Parliament, we have always strived for the 
betterment of lives. Since 1994, we have been consistently committed to serving you, 
the people of Singapore.
Empathy – In Singapore, there is no shortage of great ideas. Many of our leaders may 
have the best credentials and solutions, but we cannot forget the value of empathy 
and the human touch. At the SPP, compassion and empathy is at the heart of what we 
believe in. 
As you peruse our manifesto, do keep in mind that this is simply the start of a 
conversation. In Singapore, it is essential that we have a contest of ideas, a multitude 
of narratives, and credible alternatives so that the best results for Singaporeans can be 
produced. 
Although we have split our manifesto into 10 sections for ease of reference, it should be 
viewed holistically as some ideas cut across categories. 
In the process of drafting this manifesto, we have had the privilege of working with 
some of the brightest minds and kindest souls. We put on record our appreciation for 
their time and efforts. Without their contributions, this would not have been possible. In 
some areas, we advocate for incremental change. In others, we believe it is necessary to 
have a paradigm shift. 
In all areas, we look forward to igniting debate and starting a conversation about what 
is best for Singapore and her people. We look forward to working together with you 
towards a better tomorrow.
Foreword
A Better Tomorrow 2
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Empowering our youth
 
It is an often-cited cliché that the youth are the leaders of tomorrow, but we 
at SPP believe that they can be the leaders of today, too. All over the world, 
young leaders are rising up and making themselves heard. At SPP, we don’t 
just pay lip service to the youth. We walk the talk. We have the youngest 
CEC amongst all opposition parties in Singapore and our Assistant Secretary 
General, Mr Ariffin Sha, is 22 years-old. In the preparation of this manifesto, 
we have engaged with and sought the views of many young people from 
diverse backgrounds. SPP is committed to policies and ideas that empower 
our youth.
1.    Reducing the voting age from 21 to 18
The current age of 21 is arbitrary and disenfranchises many young people. By 
most, if not all, definitions, a 18 year-old is an adult. 18  
year-olds should have a say in policies and laws that affect them. 
The youth of Singapore has a strong political consciousness. They have a rich 
history of shaping political discourse. If it were not for the student activists who 
were pivotal in the push for Singapore’s independence, we may still be singing 
“God Save the Queen” instead of Majulah Singapura. This “wokeness” can 
be witnessed even today, as young people are spearheading the fight against 
climate change, amongst other causes.
Allowing 18 year-olds to have a say in the state of affairs in Singapore adds a 
fresh perspective that will lead to a more vibrant contest of ideas. 
A Better Tomorrow 3
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
2.    Allowing the use of parent’s CPF monies for education
Currently, the CPF Education Scheme allows members to use CPF savings from their 
Ordinary Account (OA) to pay for their children’s tuition fees. The student has to 
repay the amount withdrawn, with interest, in cash into the payer’s OA. Repayment 
starts one year after the student graduates or leaves the institution. 
However, only full-time subsidised courses at approved local educational  
institutions are included under this scheme. We propose that this scheme be 
extended to all tertiary institutions, including ones overseas. As long as the current 
safeguards within the scheme are in place, it would be arbitrary to limit it to only 
local approved institutions. 
3.    Increasing youth engagement in policy-making
It is vital that the youth of Singapore have a say in the policies that will affect them. 
The government must consider their voices by establishing a non-partisan youth-
led committee that engages the various student organisations that exist in tertiary 
institutes today. By investing more efforts into genuine engagements, the youth of 
Singapore will become active citizens who will feel included in the policy-making 
process. It will also make adulting a little easier as young people will be able to 
make more informed policy decisions. 
A Better Tomorrow 4
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
1.    No further increase of GST
The GST is a regressive tax that affects the lower and middle class population 
disproportionately. This is especially so when essential items are not exempt 
from GST. 
In the Budget preceding GE 2015, the Government noted that it has raised 
the revenue needed for public spending for the next 5 years. Memorably, 
at GE 2015, PM Lee argued that GST will only be increased if there was 
“Profligate spending and irresponsible, unsustainable plans.” However, in 
2018, it was announced that the GST will be increased to 9%. Although this 
GST hike has been postponed to 2021, we question the necessity of the hike.
The Government has had a healthy budget surplus in the past years. Further, 
the Government can also tap on various other mechanisms to increase 
revenue like a higher income tax for the top 1% or re-introducing estate duty. 
There is no reason for the Government to increase the GST where it can 
use other more equitable measures to increase revenue that have not yet 
been exhausted.  Until the contrary is proven, an increase in GST is simply 
unjustifiable.
Lowering the cost of living
The cost of living in Singapore has been on the rise. Unfortunately, the same 
cannot be said of our wages. It is therefore of utmost importance that we do 
what we can do mitigate the impact of rising costs, especially for those who 
may be disproportionately affected by the same. 
A Better Tomorrow 5
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
2.    Increased cash supplement under silver support scheme
A study by the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy concluded that single 
elderly households require no less than S$1,379 to maintain a basic standard 
of living. In Parliament, Minister for Manpower Josephine Teo shared that 
almost 75% of elderly persons received monthly CPF payouts of less than 
$500. These figures paint a worrying picture as it shows that a significant 
number of our aged population may not have the means to maintain even a 
basic standard of living. Unlike working adults, the aged will suffer the brunt of 
the rising cost of living as their relative earning capacity is lower.
Currently, eligible Singaporeans receive quarterly payouts of $180 - $900. 
This is clearly insufficient to maintain a basic standard of living. We propose 
that the quantum of the cash supplement be doubled and that the cash 
supplement be distributed monthly, instead of quarterly. In addition, those 
who qualify for the Silver Support Scheme should also have free travel on 
public transport. The quantum should also be regularly reviewed (instead of 
only once every 5 years) to track increases in the cost of living.
3.    Introduce minimum wage
A nationwide study should be commissioned to determine the amount 
needed for one to maintain a basic standard of living. Following the study, 
a national minimum wage should be instituted and pegged to the amount 
required for one to meet their basic needs in Singapore. This is a long overdue 
policy that will help to ensure that people, despite inequality, are not deprived 
of a basic standard of living. It will also help to prevent the exploitation of 
workers.
A Better Tomorrow 6
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Combating the climate emergency
Climate Change is an existential issue. It would not be an exaggeration to 
say that many of the other matters discussed in this manifesto would become 
moot in the face of a climate emergency. Therefore, it is of utmost importance 
that Singapore tackles climate change in an evidenced-based and aggressive 
manner.
In the course of preparing our climate change policies, we have had the 
pleasure of working with the trailblazers SG Climate Rally (“SGCR”). SGCR 
have put forth a thorough call to action on combating climate change that we 
support. We look forward to continue supporting SGCR and the good work 
that they do.
Many of the measures the Government proposed during the National Day 
Rally 2019 are unfortunately reactive. Singapore has never been afraid to be 
world-leaders and pioneers in policy, and there is no reason why we should 
not lead by example in the fight against climate change. Our three proposed 
policies on climate change are more than merely reactive. Instead, they aim to 
tackle the root of the issue in proactive, creative and effective ways. 
A Better Tomorrow 7
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
1.    Divestment from carbon intensive operations and 
resources
Divestment is one of the most effective tools that can be harnessed to 
take our society into a more sustainable future. While the enactment of the 
Carbon Pricing Act in January 2019 was a step in the right direction to push 
Singaporean companies to review and decarbonise their energy portfolio, 
more needs to be done to combat climate change. We call for mandatory 
public disclosure to be made for all SGX listed companies on their carbon 
emissions portfolio, investments in carbon-intensive operation and resources 
and a roadmap to divest from them.
2.    Mandatory environmental impact assessments & 
disclosure
An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) outlines the potential 
environmental impacts of any proposed development. Under current 
legislature, there is no mandate for contractors and developers to undertake 
an EIA and make reports publically available. We call for EIAs to be made 
mandatory, particularly for any construction works taking place near national 
parks or nature reserves in Singapore and have their reports made available on 
a public depository. This will enable a more informed and inclusive decision-
making process to ensure that our ecological resources are protected and 
conserved.
3.    Holistic extended producer responsibility scheme
One of the main pillars of the Resource Sustainability Act (RSA), passed by 
Parliament in September 2019, is the introduction of the Extended Producer 
Responsibility (EPR) scheme for electronic waste by 2021. Under the Zero-
Waste Master Plan, the EPR will also be extended to packaging waste by 2025. 
While packaging and electronic waste form a sizable portion of Singapore’s 
waste mix, other waste streams should be included under the umbrella of the 
EPR scheme. This enables a more holistic and integrated approach to waste 
management in Singapore. We call for the inclusion of all waste streams to be 
addressed under the EPR scheme.
A Better Tomorrow 8
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Strengthening retirement adequacy 
through CPF
In 1955, the CPF was a relatively straightforward scheme – both the employer 
and employee contribute 5% every month and the sum can be withdrawn 
when the contributor is 55 years-old. Over the years, the goal posts have 
shifted and the CPF scheme has become increasingly complex. One of our 
founding fathers, Mr Toh Chin Chye, argued that it amounted to “a breach of 
fundamental principles”. 
In our opinion, the most fundamental principle that has been breached is 
that of autonomy. It is only fair that Singaporeans have a say over how they 
utilise their own savings. The often-cited justification for this is the fear that 
contributors may elect to squander their savings away in a short amount of 
time. However, there is a lack of empirical evidence to support the assertion. 
In any case, we submit that just like how we don’t ban driving due to a 
minority of irresponsible drivers, it also makes no sense to prevent the majority 
of contributors from receiving their hard earned monies due to the purported 
actions of a hypothetical minority. 
Another justification our Government has for increasing the withdrawal age 
and sum is retirement adequacy. In Singapore, CPF and retirement adequacy 
are almost inextricably linked, or so they say. The real picture, however, is 
worrying. Minister Josephine Teo revealed in Parliament that only 53% of 
contributors achieved the minimum sum and that 74% of contributors receive 
less than $500 a month. This is clearly insufficient for retirement adequacy. 
Simple tweaks to the CPF system cannot ensure retirement adequacy. The 
SPP believes that the CPF scheme must be revamped to better reflect its 
fundamental principles and ensure retirement adequacy. 
A Better Tomorrow 9
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
1.    Ensuring retirement adequacy
In 2018, the CPF paid just $450 per month to persons aged 65 to 69 years 
old and less than $300 to those above the age of 70. This falls short of $1,379 
- the sum that is required for the elderly to ensure a basic standard of living. 
This clear gap in the retirement income system is concerning for a scheme that 
was designed precisely to allow Singaporeans to retire comfortably. Whether 
through top-ups or supplementary schemes, a fundamental re-think of the CPF 
scheme is necessary to ensure that it serves its purpose. 
2.    Allowing partial withdrawals on compassionate grounds
Currently, to withdraw CPF funds on other grounds, contributors must meet 
an extremely narrow set of conditions. We believe that when contributors are 
faced with a dire situation or a rainy day, they should be allowed to partially 
withdraw their CPF monies to tide over tough waters. At the very least, they 
must be allowed to “borrow” from their CPF monies. The prerequisites for 
withdrawal on compassionate grounds should also be widened and dealt with 
on a case-by-case basis.
3.    Publication of CPF investment returns 
In the interests of transparency and accountability, the return on investments 
from the investment of CPF monies should be made public. Publication will 
also help to retain the trust of the populace by showing that the Government 
can pay off its debts.  On years when the returns are better than expected, the 
Government should also distribute the increased returns to contributors as a 
bonus to help members be more adequately prepared for retirement.
A Better Tomorrow 10
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Greater democracy 
Every morning, millions of Singaporeans recite the words “towards a 
democratic society” in our pledge. This serves as evidence that our founding 
fathers did not think of democracy as a state of affairs that they have achieved. 
Rather, they were prescient enough to note that democracy is something that 
we must continuously strive towards. Here, SPP presents three ways that we 
embody the pledge by strengthening democracy in Singapore. 
1.    Freedom of Information Act
The enactment of a Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) will serve 2 main 
purposes:-
Firstly, a FOIA will serve as a potent antidote against the spread of fake news. 
By allowing for the free flow of information and public access to information, 
fake news will be easily debunked without the need to employ any mechanisms 
of the state. Singaporeans are a reasonable people; if information is readily 
available, they will be a lot less likely to fall prey to fake news. Facts, not the 
force of the law, is the most effective weapon in the fight against fake news.
Secondly, a FOIA will help to level the playing field by solving the information 
dissymmetry that currently exists in policy discussion. Academics, politicians 
and civil society representatives often find themselves handicapped and run 
the risk of perpetuating fake news when they discuss and debate public policy. 
With information being readily available and legislation that mandates the 
Government to declassify documents after stipulated periods of time, we can 
ensure that there will be more informed debate that will lead to better ideas for 
all Singaporeans.
A Better Tomorrow 11
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
The Freedom of Information Working Group Singapore (“FOISG”) are a group 
of students that have also advocated for a Freedom of Information Act. We 
wholeheartedly support their proposal. More information on the proposed 
Freedom of Information Act can be found at www.foisg.com 
2.    Enacting a Fixed Terms of Parliament Act
The enactment of a Fixed Terms of Parliament Act (“FTPA”). will govern the 
date of elections. This is not a novel idea and it has been adopted in some 
other jurisdictions, like the United Kingdom. The FTPA will remove the Prime 
Minister’s discretion in relation to the timing of elections. The FTPA will help 
to level the playing field by giving all parties adequate notice of elections. 
The FTPA will also lead to regularized timelines for the EBRC reports prior to 
elections. Ultimately, the FTPA will lead to more fairness and stability.
3.    Mandatory Public Declaration of Assets for Elected Officials 
In the interests of transparency and keeping Singapore corruption-free, we 
propose that all elected officials publicly declare their assets. This will help 
to ensure transparency and accountability. It will also lead to a reduction in 
conflicts of interest.
A Better Tomorrow 12
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Protecting our sandwiched generation
Our Sandwiched Generation are in a most unenviable position as a 
great responsibility rests on their shoulders. In addition to looking  
after their growing children, they also have to tend to the needs of 
their aged parents. All these, of course, is in addition to taking care  
of themselves. They are Singaporeans, Parents and Filial Children. 
More often than not, they have to look after their parents as their 
parents failed to adequately save up for retirement. The problems 
they face are particularly acute, especially for the less fortunate. 
In the short-term, we must help to ease the burdens that our 
Sandwiched Generation face. In the long-term, we must ensure that 
today’s Sandwiched Generation is adequately prepared for their own 
retirement so that the Sandwiched Generations will become a thing of 
the past. Policies must be specifically calibrated to address the unique 
set of short-term and long-term challenges that our Sandwiched 
Generation face.
1.    Allowing parentcare leave
Similar to childcare leave, employees would be allowed to take Parentcare 
Leave to look after their parents when they are unwell and accompany them to 
medical appointments.
A Better Tomorrow 13
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
2.    Flexi-work arrangements
Due to the advent of technology, it is becoming increasingly common for 
employees to work off-site. Such arrangements should be encouraged and 
incentivised as it allows employees to ensure greater work-life balance as 
they are able to spend more time with their children and parents without 
compromising on productivity. Flexi-work arrangements may also help to 
reduce costs for employers, creating a win-win situation for all. 
This can also be compounded with guidelines to  reduce or stop work-related 
tasks after the defined work day has ended. A system which promotes mental 
well-being and encourages leisure time can result in increased productivity 
for workers. This, in turn, can raise standards of living, particularly for lower-
income groups, and reduce income disparity, which is related to lower 
incidences of mental illness.
3.     Lower income tax for new parents and higher tax reliefs 
for living with parents
In light of the increasing cost of living, the current tax reliefs for first-time 
parents and working adults who stay with their parents are insufficient.  We 
propose that the current subsidies should form the baseline. For those in 
the lower-income brackets, they shall receive increased tax reliefs so that 
those who need more support will receive the same. The current one size fits 
all strategy will not be of much help. These figures should also be revised 
periodically to account for inflation and other relevant considerations.
A Better Tomorrow 14
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Improving mental health 
Mental Health is an important issue in Singapore. A nationwide 
study conducted by IMH concluded that 1 in 7 people in Singapore 
have experienced a mental disorder in their lifetime. To put this in 
perspective, 1 in 9 Singaporeans suffer from diabetes. If we can 
muster the resources to declare a “war on diabetes”, we must also 
acknowledge the serious mental health issues that Singaporeans face 
and address it. 
Mental health does not discriminate based on age, but it does seem 
like the young and the old and acutely affected. The number of young 
Singaporeans seeking help from IMH has increased by 190% from 
2016 – 2019 and 20% of Singaporeans aged 70 and above exhibit 
signs of depression.
What use is great economic growth and prosperity when, as a 
nation, we face serious issues with our mental health? The SPP 
believes in making mental health a national priority. By making 
the unprecedented move of including mental health in an Election 
Manifesto, we hope to normalize the idea of debating and discussion 
mental health policies at a national level. Here, we present 4 policies 
that will help to improve the state of mental health in Singapore.
A Better Tomorrow 15
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
1.    Improving accessibility to mental health professionals
The average waiting time for new subsidised appointments to see psychiatrist 
or psychologist is about 1 month. This long waiting time is not ideal. The 
Government should consider measures to improve the accessibility of mental 
care by making it available at all government health institutions. In National 
Service institutions, Educational institutions and facilities that house the elderly, 
there is an especially acute need for ready access to mental health professionals.
2.    Unpaid mental health leave
90% of psychological conditions in working Singaporeans are caused by 
workplace stress. Employees should be able to take unpaid mental health  
leave to cope with work burn-out and attend to their mental health needs.
3.    More appropriate sentencing options for offenders
Mandatory Treatment Orders (“MTOs”) are one of the most progressive 
sentencing options for offenders in Singapore. However, the perquisites for 
one to be sentenced to an MTO are stringent. We echo the Honourable Chief 
Justice Sundaresh Menon’s recent call for Parliament to review the criteria 
for sentencing under MTOs to allow offenders suffering from mental health 
disorders to be sentenced more appropriately so that they can get the help 
they need.
4.    Greater subsidies for mental health services
We call on the Government to provide greater subsidies for mental health 
services, especially for the disadvantaged communities. The current 
withdrawal limits of $500 (from Medisave) should be increased to better reflect 
the actual costs of treatment, which is about $300 a month. The last thing we 
would want as a nation is for one to hesitate to seek professional help due to a 
lack of resources.
A Better Tomorrow 16
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Affordable housing
Almost 90% of Singaporeans reside in HDBs. The first generation 
of Singapore’s leaders once promised that the value of our HDBs 
will never decrease. There is little doubt that this promise has been 
reneged upon as it is inevitable that the value of HDBs will decrease 
as the expiry of the lease becomes closer.
We also must not lose sight of another founding principle of the HDB 
policy – affordability. HDBs are becoming increasingly unaffordable 
for younger Singaporeans and first-time buyers, and our policies in 
relation to the pricing of flats have to be re-evaluated. 
1.    Extending the lease buyback scheme
After a period of 5 years, all HDB owners should be given the option to sell 
their leases back to the HDB at a price that is near the market value. This 
initiative will allow a win-win situation for both homeowners and the HDB.
Homeowners will take comfort in the fact that they will always be able to 
liquidate their remaining lease for a reasonable price. 
The HDB will be able to increase its “stock” of flats and have the option of 
availing it to first-time buyers or renting it out to Singaporeans who may not 
be able to afford public housing. The latter option will also allow the HDB to 
spread out the rental flats as the congregation of rental flats (under the current 
system) can have undesirable socio-economical consequences.
A Better Tomorrow 17
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
2.     Extending SERS
In light of the fact that the value of HDB flats would decrease towards the end 
of the 99-year lease period, SERS should be extended to all estates. This is the 
least that the Government can do to make good on the promise of the first 
generation of leaders that the HDB is an asset.
3.    Abolishing ethnic quota
Singapore turns 55 this year. After 55 years of nation-building and sharing 
about the values of integration, tolerance and multiculturalism, it may be the 
case that the ethnic quota has served its purpose. 
The ethnic quota also may be prohibitive to sellers from minority races looking 
to sell their HDB flats as, due to a smaller pool of potential buyers, they may 
have to price their flats lower than a flat which has no eligibility criteria for 
buyers. Malay, Indian and Eurasian homeowners should not have the values of 
their homes affected due to the ethnic quota policies. The time is ripe for it to 
be abolished.
A Better Tomorrow 18
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Holistic education 
By most measures, our education system is admirable. Our students 
and schools regularly fare well in international standards and rankings. 
The Government’s recent moves to remove streaming and to move 
towards subject-based banding is a step in the right direction. One 
area where there is room for improvement is in making the education 
system more holistic. Here we present three ideas that will make the 
education system more holistic. 
1.    Introducing environmental education into syllabus
We echo SG Climate Rally’s call to incorporate and integrate 
environmental consciousness into our education system. 
Environmental education should be included in the study of subjects 
like history, mathematics, physics, biology, etc. This way, we can 
ensure that Singaporeans are armed with the necessary knowledge, 
empathy and skills to live a sustainable lifestyle and play their 
role in combating the climate emergency. This will also help to 
deepen student’s understanding of climate change as not just an 
environmental issue but also a social, cultural and political one.
A Better Tomorrow 19
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
2.     Introducing financial literacy into syllabus
Many students emerge out of the education system being financially illiterate. 
At both a primary school level and the secondary school level, students should 
be taught fundamental financial skills like saving, budgeting, etc. At a more 
advanced level, they should also be taught about CPF, taxes, investing, etc. 
This will ensure that our students are ready for the workforce and will ensure 
they make more financially sound decisions. 
3.     Smaller teacher-student ratios
Schools should thrive to have smaller student-teacher ratios so that each 
student will be able to receive more attention from the teachers. This will  
also give teachers a more manageable workload and will be able to tailor  
their approach to better suit individual needs. Teachers should also be given 
less administrative work to allow them to focus primarily on their work in  
the classroom. 
A Better Tomorrow 20
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
Strengthening our workforce
Singapore is built on the back of our workforce. In a rapidly changing and 
increasingly globalised world, we must ensure that the heart of our workforce 
– the Singaporean Worker – remains relevant and protected. From what we 
have gathered on the ground, we find that the three following concerns 
weigh heavily on the minds of the Singaporean Worker – the influx of foreign 
workers, the possibility of retrenchment and ageism. In relation to all of these 
issues, we urge the Government to codify existing guidelines into law to 
compel employers to adopt best practices.
1.     Unemployment insurance and retrenchment rights
In times of economic recession or hardship, our workers should not 
have to struggle to maintain a basic standard of living. We propose that 
unemployment insurance should be mandated for all Singaporean workers. 
This unemployment insurance can be funded through contributions from both 
employees and employers. This will help to tide the employees through a 
period of 6 months while they upskill or look for new jobs. 
Employers should also be required to give employees retrenchment benefits 
in accordance with the TAFEP guidelines. These retrenchment guidelines 
and recommended benefits should be codified in law to prevent inequitable 
retrenchment and to guarantee the rights of employees. 
A Better Tomorrow 21
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
2.    Review of free-trade agreements
Singapore has entered into more than 20 FTAs with other nations. FTAs  
should be regularly evaluated and, if necessary, re-negotiated to ensure that 
they serve the best interests of the Singaporean Worker. FTAs should not be  
a mechanism for the Singaporean Workforce to be displaced and should aim  
to complement the Singaporean Worker.
The Government should also be more transparent in showing evidence of 
how FTAs have benefited the Singaporean Worker. FTAs should not serve the 
interests of employers and conglomerates but should also benefit the workers 
of Singapore.
3.    Abolishing the retirement age
Many of our older workers are healthy and have a wealth of knowledge and 
experience to share. However, due to ageism and/or the retirement age, they 
may be prevented from doing so. Our elder folks should not be forced to 
work, but at the same time they should also not be forced to retire. Therefore, 
by abolishing the retirement age, seniors who wish to continue to work can  
do so.
A Better Tomorrow 22
Singapore People’s Party | Manifesto
