The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
  
 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
i 
 
PREAMBLE: A SINGAPORE FOR ALL 
 
This is our vision for Singapore: 
 
• Singaporeans must be enabled to achieve their dreams: starting from our schools to 
ensure all our children are given the right tools and support to fulfil their potential and 
ambitions, and having social policies that support hardworking families to achieve 
their dreams.  
 
• We must forge a dynamic economy with competitive, locally-based firms that can 
withstand global and internal forces of change, while providing dignified jobs for our 
workers. 
 
• We will work together to build the home that we want: tackling the cost of living, 
having a robust health and social care system, with sustainable and affordable 
housing and liveable communities. 
 
• An accountable democracy and resilient Singapore is one where robust political, 
governance and defence institutions protect our security. We should embrace a 
diversity of views and encourage robust debate about the way forward. 
 
  
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
ii 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
PREAMBLE: A SINGAPORE FOR ALL I  
CHAPTER 1:   TACKLING COVID-19  AND THRIVING IN A POST-COVID WORLD 1 
TACKLING THE CRISIS 1 
THRIVING IN A POST-COVID WORLD 5 
CHAPTER 2:   ACHIEVING OUR DREAMS 9 
INCLUSIVE EDUCATION FOR OUR FUTURE 9 
SOCIAL POLICIES FOR SOLIDARITY 13 
CHAPTER 3:   GOOD JOBS AND DYNAMIC WORKERS 16 
A THRIVING ECONOMY 16 
A DYNAMIC WORKFORCE 18 
CHAPTER 4:   A HOME FOR ALL 23 
REDUCING THE COST OF LIVING 23 
OUR SINGAPORE, OUR HOME 27 
CHAPTER 5:   A RESILIENT DEMOCRACY 32 
ACCOUNTABLE POLITICAL AND GOVERNANCE INSTITUTIONS 32 
A SECURE AND RESILIENT SINGAPORE 38 
 
  
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
1 
 
CHAPTER 1:  
 
TACKLING COVID-19  
AND THRIVING IN A POST-COVID WORLD 
 
 
The Covid-19 pandemic has caused widespread economic and social disruption across the 
globe. It is a public health emergency which could overwhelm Singapore’s healthcare system 
if not adequately managed. Restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the disease have 
dealt a terrible blow to our economy and hurt the livelihoods of many Singaporeans. 
 
We acknowledge the government’s efforts so far in dealing with this crisis. We support the 
safe distancing measures put in place to contain Covid-19 and urge fellow Singaporeans to 
comply with them — for their own safety and that of the rest of the community.  
 
At the same time, although the crisis is still ongoing, it is our duty as a responsible opposition 
party to make a constructive contribution to the policy discussion on how best to deal with 
this outbreak and emerge stronger as a nation. 
 
 
TACKLING THE CRISIS 
 
The Covid-19 pandemic required a decisive and effective response, and any easing of 
restrictions need to finely calibrate kick-starting the economy while ensuring we do not face 
a second runaway wave of infections.  It is equally important that this, and any future 
pandemics, must strengthen — not weaken — our social harmony and resilience as a people. 
Singaporeans must resolve to work together as a nation to defeat pandemics, not as 
individuals weathering the storm on their own. 
 
 
Listen to medical experts 
 
The initial governmental advice telling people not to wear masks unless they are feeling 
unwell appears to have been driven more by concerns about a shortage of masks.  
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
2 
 
Ten weeks after the first Covid-19 case was recorded in Singapore, the government abruptly 
changed its position and announced the distribution of reusable masks to all residents. 
Would many infections have been prevented if the advice had been given earlier to wear 
masks to cut down the risk of infection, as advised by some doctors from the beginning?  
 
Covid-19 is first and foremost a public health crisis. The key solutions to resolving this crisis 
will come from medical experts. In the event of future pandemics, we recommend the 
formation of an independent medical advisory board making both public and private 
recommendations to the government’s medical team, to act as a source of alternative 
perspectives and advice to the government’s doctors, and to pre-empt any possible blind 
spots. A whole-of-society response would benefit from non-political, medical figures fronting 
everyday behavioural advice to the general public. 
 
 
Expand testing for Covid-19 
 
Recent studies have found that a significant percentage of individuals testing positive for 
Covid-19 are asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic. There is strong evidence that asymptomatic 
and pre-symptomatic persons can transmit the virus in the community. 
 
Because of this, Singapore should continue to expand its current testing regime to include 
more wide-spread community testing for the coronavirus. This involves testing a large 
number of people within the community, including those who may not present symptoms. 
By pre-emptively identifying individuals who carry the virus, authorities can isolate and care 
for them, and perform contact tracing, and thus further stem the spread of the virus. This 
should be done in parallel with existing testing, treatment and contact tracing for 
symptomatic individuals.  
 
Communities which are at higher risk of infection should be prioritised for such testing. All 
individuals who report even mild symptoms should be swabbed, as should their close 
contacts. As our testing capacity increases, more random tests in the community should be 
conducted to identify asymptomatic cases. When our borders are eventually opened, all 
incoming travellers must be tested and cleared before being allowed to mingle in the local 
community. A national effort to leverage domestic biomedical R&D and manufacturing 
resources should be made to ramp up production of test kits to make this possible. 
 
Expanded community testing will enable the health authorities to more precisely identify 
and isolate infected individuals, which would facilitate a safer re-opening of our battered 
economy. 
 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
3 
 
Implement effective contact tracing while safeguarding privacy 
 
Rapid contact tracing holds the other key to enable a safer and wider re-opening of the 
economy. Manual methods of contact tracing can take too long to be effective, especially if 
the number of cases balloons as restrictions are eased. Technology can enable contact 
tracers to much more quickly identify contacts and call them in for testing. 
 
The current adoption rate of the TraceTogether app falls far short of the level needed for it to 
be effective. Furthermore, TraceTogether works poorly on iPhones because Apple’s security 
features prevent the app from working in the background.  
 
Many countries plan to use the Apple and Google Exposure Notifications Service (ENS) in 
their contact tracing apps, which holds potential for cross-border interoperability. While an 
ENS-based solution would have been preferable for reasons of cost and convenience, with 
wearable devices given only to those who do not own smartphones, the key now is to ensure 
widespread use of the nationally adopted contact tracing solution, minimising attempts at 
evasion. To that end, the public should be reassured that robust privacy protections are in 
place.  
 
To protect the privacy of Singaporeans, the TraceTogether code should remain open source 
and gather only data that is absolutely necessary for contact tracing. Third party privacy 
audits should be conducted regularly with results published. 
 
 
Offer free vaccinations for Covid-19 
 
The Covid-19 vaccine, when available and approved, should be administered for free to all 
Singapore residents, starting with the most vulnerable. Immunisation should be required for 
residents of all ages, where safe and medically recommended, so that herd immunity against 
the virus in Singapore can be quickly attained, with an added benefit of avoiding further 
costly lockdown measures.   
 
 
Review Budget stimulus and payment modes 
 
The government has unveiled an unprecedented four Budgets to deal with the economic 
shocks caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The large stimulus packages are a welcome relief 
for many Singaporeans and businesses. Nevertheless, the plethora of assistance packages — 
GST Vouchers, S&CC rebates, Temporary Relief Fund, SIRS, Workfare, Covid-19 Support Grant, 
Silver Support, cash, etc — can be confusing for many people. Many are unsure if they need 
to separately apply for them or if they will receive the support automatically. 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
4 
 
Instead of spreading the support package over so many schemes, it would be better to 
channel the financial support primarily through a stored value account for each citizen. This 
way each citizen will be able to see the full amount of support they receive and use it to tide 
them over the difficult period, while injecting necessary stimulus into the economy.  
 
There should also be a single portal across the whole of government, allowing every citizen 
and company to view the support they have received from government schemes, the 
schemes which they may be eligible for with direct links to application forms, as well as their 
available credits.  
 
 
Plug gaps in support  
 
The enhanced support packages were timely and useful. However, there are gaps in these 
measures which should be addressed as quickly as possible. 
 
HDB public rent should be forgiven until all forms of lockdown restrictions are lifted, as rental 
flat residents are screened to be of low income. This would protect our society’s most 
vulnerable members and stimulate the domestic economy, while having minimal fiscal 
impact. 
 
The Self-Employed Person Income Relief Scheme should be made automatic for all self-
employed adults below the age of 37. 
 
Singaporeans who have CPF balances that exceeded their CPF Minimum Sum should also be 
allowed to withdraw a reasonable percentage of their excess CPF balances during times of 
crisis such as this. 
 
 
Support local enterprises robustly 
 
The take-up of government-backed credit schemes has been low. Many SMEs and micro-
businesses face an urgent cash flow crisis. Two thirds of our workers are employed by SMEs. 
 
For government loan schemes to provide emergency credit to SMEs during Covid, SMEs 
should be allowed to repay these loans when they return to profitability.  There should be 
clear rules mandating that Financial Institutions offer lower interest rates to be offered for 
loans where the government takes on the bulk of the credit risk.  
 
 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
5 
 
Review public communications and controls during pandemics 
 
The Covid-19 pandemic has seen serious and regular government communications efforts. 
However, changes to control measures were made too frequently for most members of the 
public to meaningfully register, leading to confusion and “rule fatigue.” Moreover, rules were 
often announced but with exceptions announced a short while later.  
 
Learning from this experience, every effort should be made to ensure that major rule 
changes should not happen on a daily basis. Exceptions to new rules should be announced 
at the same time as the rule.  
 
 
THRIVING IN A POST-COVID WORLD 
 
With the right measures in place, the Covid-19 pandemic in Singapore will eventually 
subside, although it is unlikely that the virus (and its mutations) will be eradicated. Singapore 
must prepare for life after this. We must look to the positive lessons and opportunities 
afforded by our experiences, and see that it has created room for new thinking about how we 
work and interact with each other. 
 
 
Revise pandemic preparedness plans 
 
After the crisis has subsided, an independent commission of inquiry should be convened to 
examine the lessons learned from the Covid-19 crisis and institutionalise changes to the 
current pandemic preparedness strategy, plan and protocols. The commission’s proceedings 
and findings should be made public, and both experts and ordinary Singaporeans should be 
given an opportunity to provide input. The public should be allowed to comment on the 
revised pandemic preparedness plan before it is finalised.  
 
Implementation of the revised pandemic plan should begin immediately, with an aggressive 
timeline for preparatory activities. This will help us to be better prepared for the next 
epidemic or pandemic. 
 
 
Develop domestic manufacturing capabilities for critical items 
 
Singapore currently has little domestic manufacturing capabilities for critical items needed 
to deal with a large-scale medical outbreak. These include face masks, ventilators, diagnostic 
test machines, testing reagents and other personal protective equipment. Like many 
countries, we are heavily dependent on imports. As we have seen, during a serious pandemic, 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
6 
 
each country competes for limited amounts of critical items, and some will impose export 
restrictions to ensure sufficient supply for themselves. Singapore should set up more 
domestic production capabilities for these critical items to ensure we have adequate supply 
which is not subject to external disruption.  
 
Should a similar crisis recur, suitable local companies could be given the blueprints and 
designs in order to ramp up production when requisitioned by the government. The 
government should be given powers to order manufacturers to divert R&D and production 
resources for national emergencies. The government’s ability to enforce such powers should 
be tested from time to time, for emergency preparedness. 
 
 
Proactively gather information overseas about disease outbreaks 
 
During the early stages of an outbreak, timely and accurate information is vital for the 
authorities to make the correct decisions in response to the outbreak. A delay of just a few 
days in implementing passenger screening or border controls could result in hundreds of 
infected individuals entering and spreading the infection locally. Given the high volumes of 
international travel through Singapore, it might be too late to rely solely on official warnings, 
or advice from international organisations or foreign governments.  
 
We need to proactively gather information about global disease outbreaks as they first occur. 
This would require a whole-of-government approach, leveraging our diplomatic, economic 
and other assets overseas to ensure our officials are able to take the right steps to mitigate 
the danger to our community. It could also involve sending early study missions to the city 
where the outbreak occurred to understand the situation first-hand from local health 
authorities, which would inform decision-making back home. 
 
 
Improve the living conditions in foreign worker dormitories 
 
The rapid spread of Covid-19 among the foreign worker dormitories has highlighted how 
their cramped and crowded living conditions can become breeding grounds for disease. 
These poor living conditions have been a longstanding issue raised repeatedly by NGOs over 
the years.  
 
Greater political will is needed to improve their living conditions. We should do this not just 
to prevent the spread of infections, but also because we have a moral responsibility to these 
workers who have left their homes to work in Singapore and contribute to our economic 
growth. 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
7 
 
Enforcement efforts must be stepped up to ensure that dormitory operators comply with the 
law. Those who have been found to have committed offenses that contributed to the spread 
of Covid-19 should be fined to the fullest extent of the law. 
 
A dedicated statutory board should be created to proactively set and enforce standards for 
work and living conditions for all foreign workers on Work Permits.  
 
We also call on all Singaporeans, in our everyday lives, to treat all foreign workers with the 
respect, courtesy and concern that all people deserve. This should be seen as not only a 
question of social justice but one of national security and public health. The Covid-19 crisis 
has shown that lapses on this front can harm Singaporeans. 
 
 
Strengthen social safety nets for retrenched workers 
 
The potentially large scale unemployment that the Covid-19 pandemic threatens to cause 
highlights the need for stronger social safety nets for workers who find themselves 
involuntarily unemployed. We elaborate on this in our proposal for a Redundancy Insurance 
scheme. Redundancy Insurance will not only ease the immediate financial pressure that 
retrenched workers face, but will also provide an automatic stabiliser to the economy — 
consumer spending will be sustained to help prevent the economy from spiralling 
downwards. 
 
 
Build on digital gains made during the crisis 
 
It has been said that Covid-19 has ironically been one of the biggest drivers of digital 
transformation in the workplace. Singapore should build on the gains made in the 
proliferation of working from home, home based learning, remote meetings and staggered 
working hours, as a way to improve productivity, work life balance and job satisfaction for our 
people.  
 
Companies which put in place telecommuting policies during the time of the crisis should 
continue to allow employees to work from home and work flexibly wherever feasible. Positive 
shifts in our local work culture spurred by the crisis should not be allowed to go to waste. 
 
Government programmes that support digitalisation among enterprises should encourage 
companies, particularly SMEs, to engage digitalisation beyond obvious work-streams such as 
e-invoicing and basic accounting automation. Support should be given to businesses to 
invest in disruptive, cutting edge areas such as blockchain and internet-of-things (IoT) 
technology, dark factories, distributed ledger technology, artificial intelligence and data 
analytics. The Covid-19 crisis should serve as a pivot for companies that were digital laggards 
to leapfrog and advance to the head of the digital queue. 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
8 
 
Nurture a core of globally competitive local enterprises 
 
The Covid-19 pandemic made many countries realise their vulnerability to global supply 
chain shocks. Many countries would want to pull more essential manufacturing and services 
provision back to their domestic economies or economic blocs, and indeed we already see a 
shift towards more localised supply chains where goods are manufactured closer to their end 
markets.  
 
This underlines the urgent necessity to nurture a strong core of locally-rooted, globally-
competitive Singaporean enterprises that can sustainably create jobs at home, even if 
multinational corporations were to scale back their investments in Singapore. The points 
contained in our manifesto on nurturing local enterprises are key to achieving this. 
 
Changing our laws to enable Singapore to ease the growth of reserves in order to invest in 
Singaporean workers and companies should be seen as a necessary step. Accumulating 
huge reserves while keeping Singaporean workers and companies weak is no recipe for the 
future. Investing in building capabilities and resilience is the only way we can develop a 
thriving, strong economy that will need less draw-down on our reserves in times of difficulty. 
 
 
Do our part as good global citizens 
 
Singapore has always been an open, trade-dependent country. We will not be protected 
from disease pandemics if the rest of the world is not. Singapore should do its part in disease 
preparedness efforts globally.  This includes collaborating with international organisations on 
vaccine and therapy development, sharing modelling data on disease spread and 
contributing aid to affected countries, not only for crisis handling but also for healthcare 
capacity-building.  
 
 
 
  
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
9 
 
CHAPTER 2:  
 
ACHIEVING OUR DREAMS 
 
 
We believe that hardworking Singaporeans must be equipped with the right tools and 
support to pursue their dreams, to strive for the best for themselves and their families.  
 
Holistic, systemic changes are needed to our education and social policies to enable this and 
to prevent further divisions between the haves and have-nots in our society. 
 
Education – from the early years to continuing education – is the cornerstone for giving 
students the means to better themselves and to improve social mobility. 
 
Our social policies must support Singaporean families while caring for those who are 
struggling or left behind, and to help them get back on their feet. 
 
 
INCLUSIVE EDUCATION FOR OUR FUTURE 
 
Improve access to university places for Singaporeans 
 
Universities should implement targeted programmes and mentorships to widen access to 
students from all backgrounds, particularly those from underprivileged backgrounds and no 
family history of attending university. These programmes should commence at secondary 
school and include financial support to ensure that participants are not only admitted to 
universities, but stay and complete their degrees. Mentorships and holiday work placements 
should also be offered to participants, as they may not have the necessary resources or 
knowledge of how to obtain such placements. 
  
This programme would also benefit universities and prospective employers by widening the 
pool of candidates from beyond their traditional recruitment grounds, resulting in a more 
diverse and vibrant tertiary and work environment. 
 
 
 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
10 
 
Raise the targeted percentage of graduates per cohort to 50% 
 
The percentage of each cohort to study at a university in Singapore has increased from 27% 
in 2012 to 35% in 2017, with a target of 40% in 2020. The Government should increase places 
for university admissions, aiming for at least 50% of each cohort to obtain a university degree.  
 
 
Reduce form class sizes in schools to 20-25 students 
 
In Singapore, the average class size for each primary and secondary school class is 29 and 34 
students respectively, compared with an average of 21 and 24 in Organisation for Economic 
Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries. The government has acknowledged that 
with good teachers, small class sizes help students. The Gifted Education Programme and 
Integrated Programme classes already have significantly smaller class sizes. 
 
The Workers' Party calls for average form class sizes to be lowered to 20. This should be 
rolled out progressively, with priority given to foundation subjects in primary schools and 
normal stream/G1 subjects in secondary schools. Academically weaker students should be 
the first to benefit from this change. 
 
 
Ensure Equitable funding for schools  
 
Popular schools usually charge higher 2nd-tier miscellaneous fees, enjoy greater economies of 
scale and have wealthy alumni who donate to fund better facilities and programmes. The 
student bodies of popular schools are also usually better able to afford programmes 
requiring significant co-payment. As a result, these schools offer more varied sports and 
enrichment programmes, attract bigger enrolments and generate more funding in a 
virtuous circle. 
 
Less popular schools should receive further baseline funding on top of the current per 
capita funding. This will ensure that these schools are able to offer their students a wider 
range of programmes and choices. This would mitigate the current disparity in resources 
between schools and expose more students to programmes that require more resources.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
11 
 
Improve access to enrichment programmes for low-income children 
 
Tuition at highly subsidised rates is currently provided by ethnic self-help groups. Student 
Care Centres also provide assistance with schoolwork. However not all low-income students 
use either platform.  
 
The current approach to state-supported enrichment programmes outside of the school 
system for weaker pupils should be centralised under the co-ordination of the Ministry of 
Education to offer highly subsidised, high-quality coaching and teaching interventions for 
low-income and at-risk students.  
 
All eligible students should be encouraged to sign up to such classes after school or on 
weekends. 
 
 
More infant care centres 
 
While the number of infant care centres has almost doubled since 2014, parents living in 
certain residential areas, such as Sengkang and Hougang, still face long waiting lists to place 
their children in centres close to their home. 
 
The number of infant care centres built must directly reflect the population demographic of 
the district they are located in. Newer housing estates with young families should have more 
centres with the necessary resources and facilities to provide quality care for infants.  
 
 
Extend fee and financial assistance to all preschools 
 
The Kindergarten Fee Assistance Scheme (KiFAS) is currently only available for parents of 
children enrolled in kindergartens run by anchor operators and the Ministry of Education. 
This stifles competition with other operators that provide quality education but are not 
KiFAS-eligible, and limits parents’ choices. 
 
KiFAS must be extended to all preschools to give lower income families more choices in 
deciding which kindergarten works best for their children.  
 
 
 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
12 
 
10 year through-train option for primary and secondary schools 
 
We propose a 10 year through-train programme (10 YTS) from Primary 1 to Secondary 4 as 
an option for parents who wish their child to bypass the PSLE. The 10 YTS programme gives 
students 10 years to prepare for their first major examination at Secondary 4, allowing them 
to learn at a pace best-suited to them while developing other areas of interests. The 10 YTS 
will pair up existing primary and secondary schools and complement, not replace, the non-
YTS tracks in these schools.  
 
 
Introduce a SkillsFuture education loan 
 
There should be a SkillsFuture education loan disbursing zero-interest loans from the state 
to support the cost of private Continuing Education and Training (CET) programmes and 
qualifications.  
 
While there are various options under the SkillsFuture scheme for grants that support the 
cost of deep, specialised training in specific skills, these awards are limited and highly-
competitive. Furthermore, existing education loans from banks are subject to credit checks 
and commercially-prevailing interest rates which may make them less accessible to 
applicants from disadvantaged backgrounds.   
 
SkillsFuture loans should be readily available and would allow for non-competitive, more 
widespread access to CET funding. To nudge prospective students into high-potential 
transformative industries, the granting of such loans can be calibrated towards high-growth 
industries with a lack of Singaporean manpower. 
 
 
Teach for Singapore  
 
Students from low-income households often come from families with multiple problems 
requiring social worker interventions. These add to the challenges they face in striving to 
build strong foundations for future successful careers.  
 
The Workers' Party repeats its call for a Teach for Singapore scheme, with a cadre of teachers 
trained in both educational and social work, who can provide academic guidance and holistic 
care to at-risk students. Such teachers would be better equipped to guide disadvantaged 
students in negotiating the obstacles they face in achieving their full potential in life.  
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
13 
 
SOCIAL POLICIES FOR SOLIDARITY  
 
Uncage Our CPF  
 
The CPF Payout Eligibility Age and CPF Life eligibility age should be lowered to 60. Elderly 
Singaporeans must be empowered to make an informed choice of when to start drawing 
down their hard-earned retirement savings.  
 
 
Introduce Special Dividend from GIC investments for CPF members 
 
As the Government Investment Corporation (GIC) indirectly invests CPF funds, CPF members 
must be given transparency on the nature and performance of their money. The 
Government should notify members on the 10-year moving average difference between the 
investment returns of GIC and the net interest payable on CPF member balances.  
 
To boost retirement adequacy, a third of this difference, where positive, should be returned 
as a special dividend and paid into CPF members’ Special Accounts.  
 
 
Ensure Inclusivity for Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) 
 
PWDs must be given more support to live fully enabled lives. Anti-discrimination legislation 
should specifically address PWDs, with the civil service taking the lead in employing PWDs 
where possible.  
 
The current Assistive Technology Fund administered by SG Enable should be made more 
flexible, with higher caps for disabilities requiring more expensive technology and for cases of 
disability diagnosed early in life. The government should intervene to ensure access to 
reasonably-priced van or bus transport services for VWOs supporting the PWD community. 
 
 
National strategy to combat poverty 
 
We reiterate our proposal to establish social protection steps pegged at 30%, 50% and 80% 
of the annual median monthly household income per member.  
 
The Government should publish an annual state of social protection report to measure 
progress for poverty mitigation and social mobility measures. The report should track our 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
14 
 
progress in  empowering  vulnerable groups to move up the social protection steps to 
become more self-reliant. It should also contain key performance indicators which the 
Government and the public can use to evaluate assistance programmes and to set future 
targets. 
 
 
A leg up for children of disadvantaged and single parent families 
 
We call for the equalisation of state benefits and housing options for single parents. 
Children from single parent families continue to face discrimination and unequal state 
support in certain areas. Most single parents do not choose to be in their situation (and none 
of their children would have chosen it). Yet, current schemes perpetuate inequality by 
ultimately penalise the children of single parent families who are often in need of greater 
support.  
 
Singapore’s society has grown to be more competitive and unequal in terms of wealth and 
income. To level the playing field for children of low-income families, the Kidstart programme 
needs to be expanded beyond the current pilot areas. There should also be research on 
providing conditional cash payments of to low-income parents to keep their children 
enrolled in early intervention programmes aimed at breaking the poverty cycle.  
 
 
Equalise childcare subsidies for all women, including home-makers  
 
Mothers engaged in paid employment for more than 56 hours a week are currently granted 
more childcare subsidies. This does not take into account the unpaid care or voluntary work 
that other mothers take on. Unpaid work also contributes to the economy and should not go 
unrecognised. Some mothers may also work part-time or be part of the gig economy, 
working less than 56 hours per month, leaving them ineligible for full childcare subsidies.  
 
Childcare subsidies should be equalised for all children, regardless of the employment 
status of their mothers. 
 
 
Enhance fertility support 
 
Helping Singaporean women to conceive is not a cost but a positive investment and a way of 
supporting couples' aspirations to have children. 
 
There should be a not-for-profit National Fertility Centre (NFC) that consolidates fertility-
related care under a single centre. It would provide assisted conception procedures along 
with advice. A specialised centre will significantly reduce the delay in patients receiving 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
15 
 
fertility treatment. The NFC should also explore the possibility of offering preservation of eggs 
and sperm to benefit married couples.  
 
Medisave limits for fertility treatments under the Marriage and Parenthood Package should 
also be the same regardless of which attempt it relates to. 
 
 
Fast-track Naturalisation for foreign spouses on LTVP+  
 
Foreign spouses should be given priority for citizenship naturalisation if they apply after 5 
years on the LTVP+, on the condition that they have been married to their current 
Singaporean spouse for 3 years or more and they have at least one child together. The 
evaluation criteria for such cases should be made transparent. 
 
Given that over 20% of existing marriages are between a Singapore citizen and a foreign 
spouse, transnational marriages will continue to be an important contributor to family 
formation in Singapore. Fast-tracking parents of Singaporean children for citizenship would 
facilitate the formation of stable family units. 
 
 
Reduce gambling opportunities  
 
There are many legal gambling avenues in Singapore. The expansion of gaming space in the 
two casinos and the legalisation of online gambling for two outlets in 2016 encourages more 
Singaporeans to take up the habit, a potential gateway to addiction. The National Council on 
Problem Gambling reported in 2017 that 52% of Singaporeans and PRs aged 18 and above 
said that they had gambled in the past year, up from 44% in the 2014 survey.  
 
The Workers' Party calls for a freeze in the number of gambling outlets and reduced access 
to gambling opportunities. There should be no new casino licences, and annual passes 
should be prohibited, with the cost of entry kept at $150 for every 24 hours. We reiterate our 
call for a ban on all forms of online gambling, which can create easier access to gambling.  
 
  
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
16 
 
CHAPTER 3:  
 
GOOD JOBS AND DYNAMIC WORKERS 
 
 
Singapore needs to stay competitive against the backdrop of rapidly shifting demographic 
changes, while leveraging new technology to provide dignified jobs for the workforce. We 
must ensure that each worker or business owner has a stake in our economy and shares in 
the success of it.  
 
Over-dependence on low-cost foreign labour is a short-term crutch which does not benefit 
the economy, enterprises and workers in the long run. Additionally, we must reject the idea 
of a “silver tsunami”, and instead embrace the opportunities that older, more experienced 
workers bring our nation.  
 
 
A THRIVING ECONOMY 
 
Form an EXIM Bank to finance SME internationalisation 
 
Surveys show that access to financing by SMEs remains a significant concern. Singapore 
lacks the close relations between SMEs and banks seen in countries like Germany and Japan, 
or a vibrant IPO landscape as seen in the US. 
 
We propose the establishment of an export-import (EXIM) Bank, as suggested by the 
Economic Strategies Committee in 2010. EXIM banks have contributed to the 
industrialisation of countries like Japan and South Korea and can be harnessed in our aim 
towards Industry 4.0. The EXIM Bank would be mandated to focus on providing credit for 
exports and promoting foreign direct investment for promising SMEs. The Bank’s mandate 
can include a focus on financing for digitisation and Industry 4.0 projects by local firms. 
 
 
Form a National Secretariat for Enterprise  
 
A National Secretariat for Enterprise (NSE) should be established to groom a critical mass of 
local firms to become globally competitive in key sunrise industries. The inter-ministerial 
secretariat will coordinate programmes across all relevant agencies and periodically review 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
17 
 
progress made towards targets. The NSE should develop metrics measuring job creation and 
multiplier effects on the SME sector for industries receiving government support. This will 
then be used for reviewing the return on investment. 
 
 
Keep commercial and industrial rents manageable 
 
Rent is a significant cost for local SMEs. Although the government has launched several new 
JTC Corporation (JTC) industrial hubs and low-rent incubator facilities for start-ups, the 
corporatisation of JTC assets in the past has reduced access to low-rent public sector 
industrial space. Pegging HDB rents to commercial rates also places a large burden on the 
micro-businesses and start-ups operating in our heartlands. 
 
JTC should expand its market share for industrial space, and to continue offering low-rent 
options for SMEs alongside its private sector-run facilities. Each of these would offer a 
different price-value mix.   
 
HDB should offer low-rent commercial spaces allocated by ballot, to stimulate micro-
businesses and entrepreneurship in the heartlands.  
 
To minimise rental surges seen in the last decade, government commercial and industrial 
land policy must ensure that the level of commercial and industrial rental growth should not 
outpace inflation. 
 
 
Nurture Silver industries 
 
As one of the most rapidly ageing societies in the world, there will be increased need for 
nursing homes, assisted living facilities, senior day-care/activity centres and home care. 
However, the adoption of technology amongst these service providers could be lagging 
behind countries like Japan, Korea, China and Thailand, where innovations like robotics and 
wearable technology have already made a tangible impact. 
 
Our economic and ministerial agencies in charge of elder-care should work with local 
enterprises and government-linked research centres to promote the use of productivity-
enhancing technology amongst care service providers.  
 
Test-bedding and perfecting care innovations domestically will enable our local firms to 
export these innovations to overseas markets, helping to drive our economic engine. 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
18 
 
Require interest on late payments from Government to Vendors 
 
The annual report of the Auditor-General often lists cases of government agencies which 
have registered extremely long delays in paying the invoices of government contractors. 
  
The government is a large customer of SMEs in Singapore. Unjustifiably late payments 
adversely affect the development of a thriving SME sector, and causes cash flow difficulties 
that affect the viability of SMEs and incomes of SME employees.  
 
Interest should be payable when government agencies are late in paying their contractors 
without good reason. This would help ensure fair contract adherence practices and better 
support our SMEs. 
 
 
A DYNAMIC WORKFORCE 
 
Introduce a national minimum wage  
 
There are over 100,000 Singaporeans who earn a take-home pay of less than $1,300 per 
month while engaged in full-time work. This is below the wage of $1,300 per month that an 
average four-person household in Singapore would need to spend each month on basic 
necessities such as food, clothing and shelter, according to government data. This means a 
large number of Singaporean families have difficulty making ends meet, even though their 
breadwinners are working hard to provide for them.  
 
The Workers' Party calls for all working Singaporeans to receive a minimum take-home 
wage of $1,300 per month for full-time work and pro-rated for part-time work.  
 
 
Abolish retirement age  
 
We call for abolishing the retirement age and allowing Singaporeans to work for as long as 
they are able and willing to.  
 
Anti-discrimination legislation and measures should also be deployed to prevent unfair 
dismissal due to age discrimination. 
 
This change would enable employers to assess employees based on their abilities and 
contributions, and ensure that they adopt non-discriminatory employment practices. 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
19 
 
Address the gender wage gap 
 
A recent estimate calculated that women can earn over half a million dollars less than their 
male counterparts over a 40-year career. This not only affects women, but instead has trickle-
down effects for the wider labour market and economy, as it reduces family income and 
perpetuates economic and social inequity.  
 
Employers with 10 or more employees should be required to report to MOM the gender pay 
gap for the same job description. The data should be aggregated and the average gender 
pay gap published for each industry sector, including the civil service, with individual 
company data being anonymised. 
 
This basic data would give us a better idea of the problem and set us on the road towards 
closing the gender wage gap. Companies should be given assistance to learn how to reduce 
the gender pay gap in their sector, as this will increase access to a wider talent pool, enhance 
the diversity of their workforce, and allow them to better attract and retain capable workers.  
 
 
Make Careshield Life premiums gender-neutral  
 
Careshield Life premiums should be gender-neutral as any differentiation accentuates 
gender inequality. Private insurers should be barred from offering products that levy 
differential premiums based on gender or race. 
 
 
Recognise unpaid labour 
 
Unpaid labour in our society is primarily provided by women and usually relates to tasks 
associated with the running of households and provision of care. While not included in 
traditional measurements of GDP, such labour is nonetheless crucial for a smooth and 
efficient economy. Yet those that undertake unpaid work earn less throughout their working 
life and end up being more vulnerable in their old age as they often have inadequate CPF 
balances. 
 
Recognising unpaid labour (whether carried out by men or women) must be the first step in 
addressing the disadvantages faced by those that take on the bulk of unpaid labour for a 
household. There should be annual measures of the amount of unpaid work undertaken by 
Singaporeans, and this should be published as a supplement to national GDP data.  
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
20 
 
Only by recognising the contributions of unpaid workers can we start developing policies 
that guard against such workers ending up lacking resources and destitute in what should 
be their golden years. 
 
 
Introduce Shared Parental Leave 
 
There is a direct link between paid increased parental leave and a child’s psychological well-
being. Paid parental leave encourages closer parental bonds with children while having 
positive effects on the relationship between the parents. Shared parental leave supports 
fathers who want to partake in the joys of parenthood and allows them the flexibility to take 
on greater responsibilities in child-care to support their wives. 
 
We propose a shared parental leave scheme that entitles parents to 24 weeks of 
government-paid leave, to be shared between mothers and fathers as they choose, but with 
a minimum of 12 weeks to be granted to the mother and 4 weeks to the father. This scheme 
would replace existing maternity and paternity leave entitlements. 
 
 
Support Employer Workforce Re-Entry Programmes for mothers and informal 
caregivers 
 
Employers should be encouraged to provide paid re-entry programmes to make it easier for 
mothers or informal caregivers seeking to re-enter the workforce. Such programmes should 
include mentorship, skills updating and offering a permanent position at its completion. Tax 
reliefs should be granted to employers who run successful re-entry programmes.  
 
Participants would be given a chance to update their skills and realise their potential, without 
having to accept a lower paid or skilled position due to their having had to take time off work.  
 
 
Introduce Redundancy insurance 
 
Technological disruption and global events lead to higher rates of redundancies, with 
middle-aged to older workers being most affected, heightening the insecurity facing many 
workers. The Workers' Party proposes a Redundancy Insurance Scheme to ease financial 
pressure on workers who have been made redundant while complementing existing 
programmes for re-training and re-employment. 
 
Under our proposed scheme, the average worker will pay approximately $4 per month into 
an Employment Security Fund. Employers would be required to match workers contribution. 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
21 
 
A retrenched worker would then receive a payout equivalent to 40% of their last drawn salary 
for up to six months. The payout will be capped at $1,200 per month with a minimum payout 
of $500 a month to benefit low-wage workers. Payouts after the first payout will be 
conditional on the worker actively seeking a new job or undergoing re-training.  
 
 
Legislate against discrimination for gender, race and age  
 
Currently, the Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive Employment Practices (TAFEP) 
provides guidelines and may restrict access to foreign worker permits for discriminatory 
employers. However, any discriminatory practice is still not an offence carrying penalties.  
 
After years of TAFEP, Singapore’s job market would benefit from the greater clarity and more 
stringent penalties behind minimum anti-discriminatory norms that anti-discrimination laws 
would create. 
 
Anti-discrimination legislation must be formally instituted to prohibit employment 
discrimination on the basis of race, gender, age and against Singapore citizens. Anti-
discrimination legislation provides clarity for employers to introduce internal processes to 
better protect their workers from discrimination. Such a law would also help employers to 
institute anti-discrimination measures to protect themselves from reputational and legal risk.   
 
 
Under-employed workers  
 
An increasing number of workers (including PMETs) find themselves earning less compared 
with what someone with their qualifications would have earned in the past. A 2017 study by 
the Ong Teng Cheong Labour Leadership Institute found an underemployment rate of 4.3%, 
higher than MOM's time-based under-employment rate of 3.3% as at June 2018. This is likely 
to continue increasing with the development of new and disruptive technologies such as 
artificial intelligence, autonomous vehicles and robotics. 
 
Drawing on work that has been done by multi-lateral organisations, the Singapore 
government should develop a measure for under-employment by pay and qualifications, so 
that we are able to track our progress in tackling what would likely be a huge, structural 
challenge in the future. 
 
 
Tighten Employment Pass (EP) approvals 
 
The number of EP-holders has increased by 1.2% annually from 2013 to 2018. To ensure 
employment is only granted to foreigners where there is a real lack of local manpower and 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
22 
 
skills, employers should, in all cases, submit a detailed description of local recruitment efforts 
done, numbers of Singaporean applicants and reasons why Singapore candidates who were 
considered were deemed unsuitable for the position. MOM should at the same time step up 
its detection efforts to sieve out false declarations.   
 
MOM should use this data to better support employers in hiring Singaporeans, and 
ultimately to curb access to EPs by employers with a track record of low rates of hiring of 
Singaporean applicants versus foreign applicants without convincing reasons.  
 
 
Introduce Employment Pass credentials assessment 
 
All Employment Pass and S Pass job applicants with university degrees and diplomas 
should be subject to mandatory educational credential assessments (ECAs), with costs to be 
borne by the applicant. ECAs would only be accepted from a panel of government-appointed 
established, independent consultants. The ECA report will be sent to the government, 
prospective employer and applicant. 
 
 
Incentives for hiring Singaporeans 
 
Employers with a track record of hiring more Singaporeans than required by the 
dependency ratios should be given economic benefits such as tax incentives, reduction in 
government charges or preferential access to state incentives. This recognises the challenges 
in maintaining a robust local workforce and would encourage employers to keep looking for 
ways to hire and retain more Singaporean workers.  
  
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
23 
 
CHAPTER 4:  
 
A HOME FOR ALL 
 
 
We must tackle the cost of living for hardworking families buffeted by high living costs and 
struggling to keep up in a never-ending rat race. 
 
Adequate planning and investment needs to go into physical and community infrastructure 
to ensure that our homes are places we are proud of and feel a sense of belonging to and to 
ensure that our social and healthcare systems are robust and sustainable.  
 
We should not lean too heavily on the family as the first line of defence or assume that we 
will continue to have access to cheap, imported labour. We need to plan and take action to 
solve the challenges facing us rather than kick the can down the road for future generations 
to deal with.  
 
 
REDUCING THE COST OF LIVING  
 
No to a GST hike  
 
The Workers’ Party opposes the government's plans to increase GST to 9%. This tax hike will 
be yet another burden on hardworking families who are already struggling with the high 
cost of living in Singapore. There are alternative sources of revenue that need to be more 
thoroughly considered before increasing the GST. The Government should also release its 
revenue and expenditure projections for the rest of the upcoming decade for the public to 
make a more informed decision on raising GST.  
 
More generally, a deeper public discussion on alternative sources of revenue must be 
undertaken. For example, the revenue shortfall can be met by tapping no more than a fifth of 
the approximately $15 billion per year in land sales that the government typically collects or 
by increasing the Net Investment Returns Contribution by up to 10%. These will not reduce 
the government's reserves, which will continue to grow, albeit at a slightly slower pace. 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
24 
 
Control HDB Build-to-Order (BTO) prices 
 
HDB BTO selling prices in non-mature estates should be pegged to household incomes. 
Prices should be based on a 20-year mortgage, 10% down-payment, and monthly 
repayments of a maximum of 25% of the median monthly household income.  
 
Discount should be offered to lower income applicants of 2-room and 3-room flats to achieve 
debt service ratios of 10% and 20% respectively. 
 
A 20-year mortgage will let homeowners fully pay off the mortgages around the time they 
turn 50, a time when Singaporeans often face greater income insecurity and increased 
financial pressures such as parental care support, children’s educational costs and their own 
healthcare needs.  
 
We further note that land costs account for around 60% of BTO flat development costs and is 
a payment from one arm of the government (the HDB) to another (government reserves). 
Unlike most developed countries, the government owns most of the land in Singapore and 
does not incur net debts from acquiring it.  
 
HDB should also give each buyer the breakdown of land sale costs, developmental costs and 
subsidies for them to better understand the price of their flats.  
 
 
Make medicines more affordable  
 
The high cost of medication contributes to the healthcare cost burden for Singaporeans. To 
compound this problem, manufacturers of drugs charge higher prices in Singapore 
compared with other countries in the region due to their global pricing policies.  
 
A multi-pronged approach is required to tackle this problem.  
 
All public and CHAS-affiliated private healthcare institutions should channel their drug, 
medical equipment and material purchases through a central buying agency tasked to 
negotiate better prices with manufacturers on the basis of bulk purchase and purchase 
guarantees based on demand forecasting. This will translate to more cost savings for 
patients. Healthcare providers should also be allowed to buy from alternative suppliers if they 
can obtain lower costs.  
 
The Agency for Care Effectiveness should conduct a detailed comparative study of drug 
prices between Singapore and countries in the region. It should publish a weighted price 
index that measures factors such as strength of currency, distributor margins and the 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
25 
 
number of lower-cost alternatives available, such as generic drugs. This will inform the public 
about where healthcare institutions have to focus their efforts in managing costs. 
 
Aside from tracking the use of cheaper generic drugs as alternatives, the government should 
also step up efforts to promote the registration of generic drugs in the public healthcare 
system, as not all global generic drugs manufacturers register and import their drugs in 
Singapore. 
 
Remove Medishield Life annual claim limits 
 
MediShield Life is a national health insurance scheme that is intended to help Singaporeans 
cover large medical bills. However, some patients find that after factoring in deductibles, co-
payment and annual claim limits, they are still faced with large and unmanageable medical 
bills after Medishield Life pay-outs. For example, cancer patients may incur huge bills within a 
year which are beyond the annual claim limit. 
 
MediShield Life annual claim limits should be removed and replaced with a lifetime claim 
limit. Lifetime claim limits should also be raised for patients claiming for bills in B2-class and 
C-class wards in government restructured hospitals, where more stringent cost control 
measures are already in place. Access to funding above current claim limits should depend 
on means testing and wealth declarations.  
 
The cost of this should be borne by the state to keep MediShield Life premiums affordable. 
 
 
Lower the cost of Intermediate and Long-Term Care (ILTC) 
 
ILTC includes residential services (community hospitals, nursing homes), centre-based 
services (day care, day hospices) and home-based services (home nursing care, home 
palliative care). While acute care in restructured hospitals is currently heavily subsidised, ILTC 
remains costly and inaccessible. For example, it costs between $2,000 and $3,600 a month to 
stay in a nursing home (before any subsidies). Subsidies are means tested and range from 
80% (for patients with a household per capita monthly income of $800 and below) to 0% (for 
monthly incomes above $3,300), depending on the type of care.  
 
Intermediate and Long-Term Care (ILTC) must be more heavily subsidised. Patients with a 
monthly household per capita income of below $3,200 should receive subsidies of 65% to 
80% for approved ILTC services. This will help relieve the out-of-pocket financial burden of 
social care for many families.  
 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
26 
 
Widen the use of Medisave for those over 60 
 
Many seniors suffer from chronic conditions which require extended care that can be very 
expensive. Most outpatient treatment is not covered by Medishield Life, and access to 
Medifund is only available for a limited number of patients. The use of Medisave is subject to 
annual withdrawal caps. As a result, outpatients often incur significantly more out-of-pocket 
spending over the long term compared with inpatient care. 
 
To minimise out-of-pocket expenses for our seniors, patients above 60 should be allowed to 
use their Medisave for all medical expenses not already covered by Medishield Life, Medifund 
or other assistance schemes. Such usage should only be allowed at government polyclinics, 
public specialist outpatient clinics and CHAS clinics.  
 
 
Strengthen our hawker centres and HDB shops  
 
Hawker centres should be directly managed by the NEA to keep business costs low. 
Socially-conscious enterprises and commercial entities should not be tasked with the 
management of hawker centres. Hawkers should also not be allowed to sublet their stalls. 
The NEA should set rent at a reasonable percentage of what private food court operators 
charge to ensure cost stability, consumer affordability as well as to encourage more 
Singaporeans to enter and sustain the hawker profession.  
 
To keep our hawker centres alive, amenities such as hawker centres should be built ahead of 
demand in new estates. Hawkers should be charged lower rents prior to demand building 
up. This is fairer to pioneering batches of residents and hawkers in new towns. As hawker 
centres are a key feature of Singapore’s unique culture and heritage, they should be built in 
all town centres.  
 
Simultaneously, stall leases should be awarded on the basis of retail diversity, use of healthier 
ingredients, and proposed price of food.  
 
Similarly, HDB should continue to build and directly manage shopping plazas for 
neighbourhood clusters with a diverse retail mix favouring small businesses and micro-
enterprises. Low-rental schemes should also be made available for these tenants. 
 
 
Revive convenience and coffee shops 
 
HDB should allocate a portion of void deck space to provide for at least one coffee shop for 
every two precincts. Coffee shops and convenience shops are community spaces that allow 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
27 
 
residents to meet their everyday needs and foster ties with their neighbours while also being 
an integral part of our heartland culture.  
 
 
OUR SINGAPORE, OUR HOME 
 
Introduce HDB reform to tackle lease decay  
 
The HDB resale market has been affected by concerns over lease decay in the past few years. 
If HDB resale prices fall, the retirement adequacy of many Singaporeans may be affected, if 
they rely on selling their flats to release funds for their retirement needs.  
 
A universal buy-back scheme should be offered to all HDB lessees to back-stop resale prices 
to a certain degree. The buy-back formula should be devised to be fair to the buyer and the 
state. Some of the acquired flats could then be rented out to Singaporeans at rates in 
between commercial and HDB public assistance rentals. This would provide more housing 
options for Singaporeans who do not wish to own a flat lease at certain points in their lives. 
 
Recognising the need for orderly urban renewal, the government should also consider  
launching more SERS exercises and providing a SERS scheme which does not require a proxy 
relocation site, using instead BTO and balance flats for relocation.  
 
 
Allow BTO flats for singles at 28  
 
The age at which singles can apply for a 2-room BTO flat should be lowered from 35 to 28.  
 
Our public housing policy should be delinked from the expectation that Singaporeans should 
get married before a particular age – 35 in this case.  
 
Young Singaporeans are becoming financially independent earlier and are marrying later. 
The government should not deny young single Singaporeans an opportunity to own their 
own home. The rental option is currently not feasible for most younger singles aged between 
28 to 35 as the cost of renting a 2-room HDB flat from the commercial rental market is very 
high relative to the median wage.  
 
 
 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
28 
 
Remove ethnic quotas for HDB resales 
 
The ethnic integration policy (EIP) was introduced in 1989 by the government to maintain a 
proportionate ratio of residents across various ethnic groups in HDB estates. However, the 
EIP has made it more difficult for minorities to sell their flats, resulting in many having to sell 
at a discounted prices. Between 2015 and 2017, there were 1,600 appeals for waivers, an 
increase from the 1,200 appeals between 2013 and 2015.  
 
The ethnic quotas governing citizens’ home ownership of HDB flats should be abolished. 
This would address the disadvantage faced by ethnic minority HDB flat resellers.  
 
Abolishing the quotas will not cause racial disharmony amongst Singaporeans. After more 
than 50 years of nation-building, our society has evolved and achieved multi-racial 
integration that has gone beyond the need for mandating proportionally mixed 
neighbourhoods. Singaporeans should be therefore given the freedom to choose where their 
homes will be without taking into account race. 
 
 
Boost retirement adequacy for unpaid workers 
 
Full-time home-makers and caregivers often struggle with retirement adequacy. Many of 
them have insufficient savings and CPF balances, despite contributing a huge amount to our 
society by undertaking unpaid labour in the form of caregiving.  
 
The government should relax rules on the transfer of CPF funds before the age of 55 
(including Medisave), provided the Minimum Sum has been met, to allow transfers to older 
relatives in one’s extended family.      
 
 
Boost caregiver support  
 
Caregivers carry a heavy burden in caring for loved ones. Many of them neglect their own 
physical, emotional and mental needs. Caregivers who also have jobs find it challenging to 
balance the demands of work and their dependants, sometimes with adverse effects on their 
job performance.  
 
All informal caregivers of elderly or disabled family members should be entitled to ask for 
flexible work arrangements that are feasible for their line of work and fair to both employer 
and employee. Employers should provide reasons if the request cannot be met. Caregiver 
support networks and counselling services should also be readily available for care-givers 
who also work. 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
29 
 
 
Industry Transformation Maps (ITMs) should be refined to encourage flexible work and work-
life balance.  
 
All full-time caregivers should be given the option to take a day off a week, where they can 
draw on a shared pool of suitably-qualified respite home care workers to step in during their 
day-off. Full government subsidies should be made available to those who meet the means-
testing requirements. 
 
 
Launch a Silver Living programmes for Assisted Living 
 
By 2030, one in four Singaporeans will be aged over 65, and almost one in three will require 
some form of eldercare. Our future seniors will be a diverse group and have different financial 
abilities, needs and aspirations. Many of them will want to live outside an institutionalised 
care setting. To expand options for successful ageing, Singapore needs to provision of 
assisted living for seniors at different price points. 
 
We propose a Silver Living Development Scheme to increase the number of affordable, 
privately-run Assisted Living Facilities to complement the assisted living HDB flats being 
rolled out. The Scheme will provide a substantial land grant to not-for-profit organisations in 
return for following a set of guidelines on care standards, along with operational and financial 
best practices. Such facilities should have good transport connectivity and offer shared office 
facilities to be made available to residents still engaged in white-collar work. On-site 
commercial facilities catering to all age groups should be available to encourage family 
visitation and inter-generational engagement with the public. 
 
Innovative options to promote inter-generational solidarity and living should be created, 
including senior and child-care facilities within the same premises with shared activities. For 
example, seniors can volunteer as storytellers or tutors to children sharing the facilities. The 
option of students or young people living in senior homes is gaining in popularity in other 
fast-ageing societies and should be trialed.  
 
 
Make public transport free for Seniors and Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) 
 
Public transport on trains and buses should be made free for Singaporeans aged over 65 and 
all Singaporeans with disabilities. This should be funded from the Budget as well as utilising 
all available monies from the Public Transport Fund.  
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
30 
 
Though concessionary fares are now already available to senior citizens and people with 
disabilities (PWDs), free public transport would lower the financial burden on the rising 
number of seniors.  
 
Seniors thinking of applying for casual or part-time jobs may be deterred by the cost of 
public transport to and from work. This measure could encourage more seniors and PWDs to 
take up work instead of remaining unemployed at home. Enhancing the employability of 
seniors and PWDs is a crucial priority for Singapore. It supports inclusiveness and active 
ageing and also raises our labour force participation rates.  
 
Independently-measured service quality standards should be taken into consideration to 
determine the extent to which PTOs can raise fares, to encourage improvements to the 
commuter experience. 
 
 
Do more to mitigate climate change 
 
The average sea level around Singapore’s coasts has risen steadily at a rate of between 1.2mm 
and 1.7mm per year, and is projected to increase by around 1m by 2100 under a moderate 
emissions pathway. Commitment to climate change mitigation is crucial and necessary.  
 
We must increase our use of renewable energy sources. Natural gas, currently the main fuel 
used for power generation, is cleaner than coal or diesel, but is still a fossil fuel with a carbon 
footprint. 
 
We propose targeting a minimum of 10% of our energy to come from renewable sources by 
2025, which will put us on par with developed countries such as South Korea and Belgium. 
This should come from a combination of enhanced solar power deployment and energy-
efficiency measures. New gas-fired power plants should not be built unless the demand 
cannot be met from renewable sources.  
 
Government R&D funding should simultaneously be steered towards addressing the 
problems of intermittency and smooth integration of renewable sources into the power grid.  
 
 
Curb plastics use 
 
We call for the introduction of a single-use plastic charge, phased in over 5 years, to 
encourage a reduction in plastic waste and look for alternatives. The value of the charge 
would need to be sufficiently high to change behaviours but remain sensitive to the needs of 
lower socio-economic groups and PWDs.  
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
31 
 
A nationwide public education campaign to raise awareness of the effects of single-use 
plastics and other more sustainable alternatives. The carbon footprint for different products 
using sustainable, non-plastic materials should be published, together with full disclosure of 
the scientific methodology used to arrive at the numbers. 
 
Styrofoam should also be banned where there are other eco-friendlier alternatives. The 
manufacture and sale of rinse-off cosmetic and personal care products containing micro-
plastics should also be prohibited, following the lead of countries like the UK, where a similar 
ban was instituted in 2018. The ban should be phased in over a period of 5 years to give 
industry time to adapt.  
  
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
32 
 
CHAPTER 5:  
 
A RESILIENT DEMOCRACY 
 
ACCOUNTABLE POLITICAL AND GOVERNANCE INSTITUTIONS 
 
Singapore has come a long way since independence. The next stage of nation-building must 
result in a well-educated populace living in a resilient democracy with room for robust, 
respectful debate and diversity of views. We must also uphold accountability and keep key 
tenets and values of our society well protected. 
 
Abolish Group Representative Constituencies (GRCs) 
 
The GRC system should be abolished and be replaced by Single Member Constituencies. 
Singaporeans have matured as a society to the point and there is now no evidence that 
Singaporeans vote solely along racial lines. Continuing the GRC system may, in fact, reinforce 
that which it seeks to counter, as the existence of GRCs may be taken to signal that ethnic 
minority candidates are unelectable on their own. With the abolition of GRCs and the 
removal of the Elections Department from the purview of the Prime Minister, the NCMP 
scheme can be discontinued as it would be unnecessary. 
 
 
Safeguard the independence of national institutions  
 
Close relatives and current or former party colleagues of political office holders should not 
be appointed to key positions in national institutions, including organs of state, national 
media companies and sovereign wealth funds. It is important to safeguard the 
independence of these institutions and improve public confidence in them. National 
institutions should not only be independent, but must also be seen to be independent.  
 
The Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (CPIB) should be overseen by a cross-partisan 
Parliamentary Committee.  
 
The Attorney-General’s Chambers should be separated into two organisations as suggested 
by former AG Walter Woon: a prosecution service which is operationally independent of the 
government, with its head appointed by the outgoing head in concert with the Chief Justice, 
and a government legal counsel reporting to the Cabinet.  
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
33 
 
 
The Elections Department of Singapore and Electoral Boundaries Review Committee 
should both be removed from the purview of the Prime Minister’s Office and report to the 
Chief Justice and President respectively, and operate as fully independent bodies. 
 
The People's Association (PA) has a standing policy of appointing the PAP branch chairman 
in each electoral division as their "grassroots advisers". This gives partisan politicians (even 
unelected ones) access to the funds, manpower and resources of the tax-payer funded PA 
and other government agencies, while elected opposition party MPs have to seek out 
alternative resources. The PA should be depoliticised by making the President the Chairman 
of the PA, enabling the PA to focus purely on their stated task of strengthening community 
relationships. 
 
The term of each Parliament should be fixed, freed from the Prime Minister’s unfettered 
discretion. The electoral boundaries report must also be published one year before the end of 
each fixed term of Parliament. This would make governance more predictable and 
transparent, ending the rampant, potentially disruptive speculation on the timing of 
elections. Early dissolution of Parliament should be allowed in special circumstances like a 
vote of no-confidence or assent of Parliament via a two-thirds majority.  
 
 
Revert to a ceremonial presidency and safeguarding our reserves 
 
The President is the Head of State, a unifying figure and symbol of the nation. Our past 
system of having Presidents chosen by Parliament resulted in Heads of State who were held 
in high esteem and greatly respected by the people. The President should revert to being 
appointed by Parliament, and serve as a Head of State who unites Singaporeans and 
represents the nation. Parliament should consider, amongst other qualifications, the 
multiracial character of our society while choosing each President.  
 
The President should not be tasked to safeguard the past reserves and the integrity of the 
public service. Instead, a separate Senate should be established and directly elected by the 
people to exercise all the discretionary powers currently vested in the Elected President. 
Parliament should be able to overturn any Senate veto with a three-quarters majority. 
 
 
Strengthen legislative oversight 
 
Singaporeans want an accountable government. Parliamentary powers should be enhanced 
to take into account the role of a loyal opposition and strengthen its oversight over the 
Executive.  
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
34 
 
Standing select committees comprising elected MPs from across party lines should be set up 
for each Ministry to examine their spending, policies and administration. For sensitive 
agencies such as MINDEF and MHA, cross-partisan parliamentary committees should review 
spending at closed door hearings.  
 
Parliament should establish its own cross-partisan public consultation select committee 
supported by a secretariat that will allow for public consultations to be held in a neutral, non-
partisan manner. 
 
 
Lower the voting age to 18 
 
The current voting age should be lowered to 18. Enfranchising younger Singaporeans will 
empower them to meaningfully participate in public life earlier and lend their voice to public 
conversations and ensure that a longer-term view is reflected in national political choices. If 
young Singaporeans are asked to bear arms for their country at the age of 18, they should be 
entrusted to participate in the governance of the country they are defending by voting for 
their leaders.  This change would also bring us in line with international norms. 
 
 
Broadcast Parliamentary sittings live 
 
There should be live, unedited broadcasts of parliamentary sittings and selected public 
hearings of parliamentary committees via internet streaming. The public should to be able to 
view Parliamentary proceedings live without any time lag.   
 
 
Form the office of an Ombudsman to investigate complaints against the public 
service 
 
Citizens with grievances are currently deterred from seeking redress through legal action by 
considerations of cost and the difficulty of gathering evidence in the context of rules and 
laws such as the Official Secrets Act. This is made even more problematic with the recent 
approach of disclosing personal details of some citizens who have raised grievances. 
 
There should be an independent Office of the Ombudsman. Any citizen who is aggrieved by 
the action of any public servant would be able to lodge a complaint with the Ombudsman to 
seek recourse. This would provide citizens with an alternative avenue to commencing legal 
action against the government, an option that few citizens would take.  
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
35 
 
The Ombudsman will be empowered to investigate complaints with the full cooperation of 
the civil service, at nominal cost to the citizen, and to practise a principle of anonymity for 
complaints made in good faith, similar to that required by the Singapore Exchange for 
whistleblowing policies for listed companies. The Ombudsman would be empowered to 
advise on corrective actions and recommend prosecutions.  
 
This will enhance government accountability and create more options for citizens to seek 
redress without fear of reprisals or recriminations. 
 
 
Declassifying our national archives  
 
Documents in the National Archives that are declassified after 25 years from the date of 
record should be made freely accessible to all. This will ensure greater transparency and 
accountability, and lead to a better understanding of our history.  
 
In the interests of national security, only material marked “Secret” would still be subject to 
requests and approval. An independent panel of experts should be set up to consider all 
requests for access and early declassification. All Cabinet papers should be automatically 
released after 40 years. 
 
A Freedom of Information Act should be enacted to institutionalize Government 
accountability, with exceptions made on matters covering security and defence.  
 
 
Enhance National Education in schools 
 
To foster an active citizenry, National Education should be updated to focus on our 
Constitution and the workings of our Parliamentary democracy. Students should be taught 
the processes behind the formation of a government from Parliamentary elections, 
amending the constitution, the secrecy of ballots and the roles of MPs, Town Councils and 
national government agencies. The teaching of Singapore’s political history should 
encourage the comparison of different interpretations and accounts. 
 
 
Implement Media reform 
 
The Newspapers and Printing Presses Act should be amended to abolish the government’s 
power to require a class of management shares in newspaper companies. The Broadcasting 
Act should be amended to do the same for broadcast companies. The licensing regime 
should be opened up to allow mass media companies to be majority owned and managed 
by locals to encourage a free and competitive mass media sector.  
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
36 
 
 
An independent regulatory industry body should be created to investigate complaints 
against the media on grounds of ethics and journalistic integrity. 
 
 
Make the Courts the primary arbiter of fake news 
 
Deliberate online falsehoods are a threat to social harmony and fair elections world-wide. 
However, the Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (POFMA) enables 
every Minster to be the first arbiter of what can be publicly said as true. POFMA also does not 
check a government’s ability to propagate fake news. These powers create the possibility for 
abuse by present and future governments to suppress inconvenient truths and entrench 
themselves in power.  
 
The courts must be required to approve government POFMA directives on substantive 
grounds using a streamlined process with enhanced resources to ensure timely judicial 
decisions in time-sensitive cases.  
 
 
Entrench an independent judiciary 
 
Ministerial discretion should not be absolute and subject to either judicial review for 
lawfulness of process (not on merits) or review by the independent Office of the 
Ombudsman. Current exclusions from judicial review should be reviewed. 
 
The retirement age of Supreme Court judges should be extended from 65 to 70 with no 
prospect for further extension. The present provisions for the appointment of fixed-term 
Judicial Commissioners and short-term Senior Judges should be removed. Extensions and 
short-term appointments weaken the protective wall that upholds judicial independence.  
 
The Administration of Justice (Protection) Act, which seeks to protect Court proceedings 
from external influence, should be amended to scrap the government immunity clause, 
which unjustifiably allows the government to comment on Court proceedings in ways that 
members of the public cannot. The threshold for the offence of scandalising the judiciary 
should be restored to a “real risk” rather than merely a "risk", to avoid excessively harsh 
treatment of public discussions about judicial decisions. 
 
We propose that trials for capital cases be conducted by a tribunal of two judges, whose 
decision to impose the death sentence must be unanimous. On appeal, the death sentence 
should be upheld only if upon a unanimous decision from the Court of Appeals bench. 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
37 
 
Foster a robust criminal justice system 
 
Arrested persons must be told their legal rights upon arrest, especially the constitutional 
right to counsel under Article 9 and the right against self-incrimination. An arrested person’s 
constitutional right to consult legal counsel should be protected by allowing early access. All 
interviews and the taking of statements by law enforcement should be video recorded to 
ensure that statements have not been extracted by way of inducement, threat or promise.  
 
There should be an Independent Police Complaints Commission to oversee complaints 
about the police and the Internal Security Department. Better oversight can prevent the 
overstepping of authority and excessive use of force. 
 
 
Enhance Cyber-security 
 
Independent cyber-security audits and “white hackers” should be regularly deployed to 
ensure that basic security flaws are prevented, like the absence of proper controls on 
deleting obsolete user accounts and installing security patches. Audit reports should be 
submitted to Parliament for review.  
 
The Cyber Security Agency (CSA) should publish regular advisories on cyber-security for 
businesses and not-for-profits, utilising data from the latest incidents.  
 
Such measures are necessary to enable Singapore to decisively address the recent spate of 
cyber-attacks and cyber-security lapses amongst government agencies. 
 
 
Replace the ISA with an Anti-Terrorism law 
 
The ISA should be abolished and replaced with an anti-terrorism law that enables swift 
detention without trial, but for a limited duration and with avenues to enable suspects to 
challenge their detention legally and obtain release if the law has been wrongfully applied.  
 
In line with developed country norms, Singapore should try cases of espionage through the 
Courts, with modifications to protect secrets where necessary. If justice is seen to be done, 
that helps to undermine the propaganda of terrorists. 
 
 
 
 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
38 
 
Promote sporting excellence 
 
Young sporting talent should be identified and supported from a younger age, with both 
financial and coaching assistance provided by the government and sports associations. This 
will enable Singaporeans from a wider range of backgrounds to achieve world-class sporting 
excellence by easing the financial burden of the private coaching and education that is often 
required. 
 
To keep political parties from using sports as a vehicle to promote their agenda, leaders of 
national sports associations should only be elected from amongst the sporting fraternity. 
Politicians of all parties should not be allowed to hold any positions within sports 
associations. 
 
A national sports museum should be established to promote our sports heritage. The 
National Heritage Board should give special consideration to our sporting heritage and 
honour our sporting heroes. 
 
 
Create an independent body for the arts 
 
We propose the creation of an independent body for the arts with representation from the 
arts community to oversee arts licensing and the award of arts grants. Support for artistic 
projects should be given based on considerations of artistic merit, not based on the art 
work’s implied attitude towards any political party or its interpretation of history. Curbing 
state interference in arts policy and fostering independent community-led governance is the 
best way to nurture a flourishing arts industry. 
 
 
A SECURE AND RESILIENT SINGAPORE 
 
We support foreign and defence policies that place Singapore’s national interests first while 
seeking to co-operate with as many other state and non-state actors as possible on the basis 
of mutual benefit.  
 
Implement good global citizenship and public diplomacy 
 
We support Singapore’s participation in initiatives by the United Nations and other major 
international organisations, such as the World Health Organisation, UNESCO, the World Bank 
and International Labour Organization. Whole-of-government efforts should be made to 
The Workers’ Party Manifesto 2020  A Singapore For All 
39 
 
align Singapore to global best practice standards in policy areas such as vaccinations and 
workplace harassment.  
 
Singapore should work with our companies and NGOs interested in Corporate Social 
Responsibility to step up public diplomacy efforts, particularly in ASEAN. Such efforts should 
focus on social impact and deepening cultural understanding of Singapore.  
 
Communicating the positive regional role played by Singapore will win public support in the 
region for co-operation with Singapore.  
 
 
Strengthen ASEAN 
 
We support efforts to work with our neighbours to bolster ASEAN. A united and well-
coordinated ASEAN can provide assistance to its members and enhance regional stability, 
including through the ASEAN Economic Community and ASEAN Political-Security 
Community.  
 
We should seek multifaceted relations with our neighbours, as outlined in the ASEAN Socio-
Cultural Community (ASCC) Blueprint. This would include facilitating cultural exchanges, 
interaction amongst non-governmental organisations and civic groups, educational 
interactions, people-to-people contact, Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) 
and development assistance. 
 
These enhancements will strengthen ASEAN as an institution that can better serve 
Singaporean and regional interests. 
 
 
Conclude South China Sea code of conduct  
 
We support ASEAN’s efforts to manage regional disputes and prevent the escalation of 
tensions. Singapore should work through ASEAN to finalise, as soon as possible, a South 
China Sea Code of Conduct that is consistent with prevailing international law and practice.  
 
Any Code of Conduct should be mindful of power asymmetries and seek to limit arbitrary 
behaviour and pressure from states with greater capabilities. 
 
Singapore should also work through ASEAN to realise arrangements to improve 
communication, manage differences, avoid accidents and prevent escalation.  
 
