National Solidarity Party
GE Manifesto 2020
IDEOLOGY & PRINCIPLES
The National Solidarity Party (NSP) is a democratic, pragmatic
and progressive political party that treasures values towards
building an open society – A society for all.
NSP believes in the human potential, dignity and rights of all
people, regardless of race, language or religion. 
NSP exists to uphold democracy and to provide constructive
ideas to benefit the Society.
NSP shall build a pluralistic democracy by winning seats in
parliamentary elections.
All citizens should have the right to vote freely without fear,
coercion or discrimination by race, age, gender, occupation
or belief.
Political Ideology
Party Core Values
Mission Statement
Party Objectives
Political Rights
Singapore should undertake its population growth gradually
in alignment with its infrastructure readiness. A sudden
population growth without good foresight and proper
planning should never be repeated.  The population growth
should be organic with initiatives to increase our total
fertility rate, where the Government shall provide parents
options to a comprehensive security net for their children
(up to 18 years of age).
NSP is committed to an open and free competitive economy
in which the Government’s economic responsibilities shall
generally be confined to the formulation of policies to
enhance national development and economic growth. 
While a steady inflow of sizeable foreign investments should
be sustained consistently, a balanced ratio between foreign
versus local investments shall be maintained. 
Local SMEs and micro businesses shall be assisted to lower
business costs, increase productivity and enhance
competitiveness. 
NSP believes in the human potential, dignity and rights of all
people, regardless of race, language or religion. 
POPULATION GROWTH
Proper Planning
NATIONAL ECONOMY
 
The Government shall not increase further the current
Goods and Service Tax (GST) of 7% to 9% and look beyond
the GST mechanism for alternative source.
More tax credits shall be given to citizens caring for their
aged parents and school-going children. These credits can
be the form of tax rebates in their annual income taxes.
Certain essential entities are an integral part of the national
infrastructure and they shall be sustained by a responsible
government. Such entities shall not depend on
shareholders’ interest alone as is the norm with privatised
organisations. 
The Government justification for the privatisation of certain
national entities fell short because some of these entities
are either monopolies or oligopolies, at present and in the
foreseeable future. 
Citizens should be entitled to foremost priority in the
engagement and employment of workforce.
The Government shall establish a minimum living wage
policy to protect low-wage earners from being exploited,
and the Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive
Employment Practices (TAFEP) shall ensure non-tolerance to
employment discrimination.
Taxation
Privatisation
Employment
HDB shall resume its core responsibility i.e. provision of
quality public housing for the masses at cost-plus prices. 
HDB shall release comprehensive detail of the costs (land,
construction, development, administrative, etc) of each
project on its website before launching it, to allow
evaluation of its cost efficiency.
Financial Assistance
The Government should render more assistance to those
with genuine financial difficulties.
More subsidized rental flats should be developed to reduce
the waiting time for those citizens who are in dire needs.
Such flats should be prohibited from being used to house
foreign workers.    
HDB flats owned by PRs should be prohibited from resale
within 8 years’ of ownership, and any profit realised from
the sale thereof should be subject to taxation to prevent
speculative transaction. Such flats should also be prohibited
from being leased out either wholly or in part.   
PUBLIC HOUSING 
Core Responsibility of HDB 
Transparency
Subsidised Rental Flats
Restriction on PRs
The Government shall undertake to provide an affordable
Comprehensive Medical Insurance (CMI) with coverage to
include hospitalisation and outpatient treatments, including
treatment for COVID-19 virus, at private or restructured
hospitals, polyclinics and affiliated private clinics. It shall also
cover all pre-existing medical conditions of children.
The CMI should be made mandatory for all Citizens, with the
Government contributing at least 50% of the premiums
payable. It may also be extended to foreign workers, PRs
and foreigners living in Singapore, but without any
Government subsidy. 
Full payment of the CMI premium for those citizens under
Public Assistance should be undertaken by the Government.   
The Government shall promote the use of generic drugs
which are comparatively cheaper with Free Trade
Agreements that may restrict any rights to use generic drugs
should be carefully reconsidered.
Urgent attention should be given to our aging population’s
needs for more beds, medicine, medicinal facilities and
qualified healthcare workforce.
HEALTHCARE 
Comprehensive Medical Insurance
Generic Drugs
Aging Population
Subsidized educational services should be extended to
include the nursery and pre-primary levels as well and the
administration of both Nursery and Pre-primary education
should be placed under the purview of the MOE instead of
the MCYS. 
NSP had since 1997 pushed for the reduction of class size to
an optimal size of 20, to improve the teacher: student ratio
to enable better interaction, thereby enhancing the learning
process. Now with the new experience of home-based
learning digitally and virtually, we can explore boundless
opportunity to provide our students holistic learning.
Citizens on government scholarships shall serve their
obligations in Singapore, but not necessarily with a specific
ministry / statutory board, to spread their talents, networks
and benefit the whole economy. 
EDUCATION 
Extensive Purviews
Class Size
Scholarship Bonds
Citizens shall be allowed to withdraw temporarily from their
own CPF Ordinary Accounts, whenever they are retrenched
or in times of hardship. A household can withdraw a
maximum amount of $3000 per month up to a 6-month
period, capped at 20% of the Ordinary Account. Such
withdrawals should be fully repaid when the Account Holder
is gainfully employed.
To provide a further boost for continuing education in this
current knowledge-based economy, the list of CPF-approved
tertiary providers should be expanded both in scope and
availability.
CENTRAL PROVIDENT FUND
Withdrawal from CPF during times of hardship
Education Support
Public transportation as an essential convenience of
modern living should be manifested in terms of availability,
accessibility and affordability. It should also be well-
maintained to remain safe, convenient and reliable at all
times.
Public transport operations shall be monitored closely to
prevent unreasonable fare hikes. All person with disabilities
and receiving public assistance shall be eligible for
concessionary passes. 
All Concession Pass holders (students, Senior Citizens,
PWDs, and Public Assistance recipients) should be allowed
to enjoy concession rate at all times.
PUBLIC TRANSPORT
Transportation Cost
Singapore should maintain a national defence force strong
enough to safeguard its sovereignty, independence and
security.
The Nation should adopt a moderate and restrained
posture and support regional cooperation and joint
defence, in order to contribute to a stable and peaceful
environment in the region.
The national defence expenditure should be reduced
progressively over several years so that it could be capped
at a steady 4.5% of the GDP. 
The Internal Security Act shall not be abused to suppress
political dissidents or to create fear amongst the electorate. All
political / security detainees should be entitled to fair trials.
POFMA should be reviewed and abolished if necessary.
DEFENCE
National Defence
Defence Expenditure
Internal Security Act 
